<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  world affairs>Leading Article : Still a need for the big idea By MARY FAGAN NEIL Kinnock and the party he leads are looking better than they have done at any time since he took office in 1983 . There will be ritual rebellion in Brighton from the Transport and General Workers Union over Labour 's belated renunciation of unilateral nuclear disarmament . But Ron Todd , the union 's general secretary , is expected to concede defeat gracefully . Even if other antinuclear fundamentalists threaten to fight , fight and fight again , Mr Kinnock need have no fear . The more firmly he tells them and the country that , as Prime Minister , he and not they will rule , the more likely it is that he will eventually reach Downing Street . On other issues , crucial victories have been won before the Labour Party 's annual conference opens . Relatively few influential activists would now quarrel with the recognition that markets are an effective way of generating wealth and indicating consumer preferences . Few want the wholesale repeal of industrial relations legislation . Even the popular belief that the unions exercise too much power over Labour policies is gradually being accepted by a number of union leaders . Paradoxically , the more moderate of them are insisting on the maintenance of their block votes because the party is still not fully democratic .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  belief and thought>BOOK REVIEW Thatcher 's early days on the seat of power :   Margaret , Daughter of Beatrice   - Leo Abse : Jonathan Cape , 12.95 pounds By AUBERON WAUGH IN A LONG apologia for having had the temerity to undertake a psycho-biography of Mrs Thatcher , Leo Abse denies that his book is a personal attack on her , but agrees that it may have some admonitory function in warning people not to acquiesce too readily in the disposition of someone who would appear , on his argument , to be gravely unbalanced . His justification for the necessary invasion of privacy is the familiar - and thoroughly respectable - plea that politics should and must be personalised . Politics has very little to do with issues ; it is all to do with the personal vanities and ambitions of politicians . Or so he says at the beginning of his book . By the end , with an extended sermon on the emptiness of individualist ethics , he is pleading for a return to the benevolence in public affairs which Thatcher can not supply by nature of having been denied her mother 's breast , given the wrong sort of potty training , etc . There are two objections to this sort of psycho-biography . The first lies in the extent to which all evidence adduced depends on guesswork . Abse has not put Thatcher on the analyst 's couch , and does not pretend to have done so . Everything is taken from previously published material .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>The revolution the countryside needs : Christian Wolmar says Britain is lagging behind in setting up   telecottages   By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR THE information technology revolution has left large swaths of rural Britain untouched . The only computers in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games . Ashley Dobbs , an engaging young entrepreneur , is setting out to change that by creating a nationwide network of   telecottages   . This clever name , with its neat evocation of new and old , describes a concept which was developed in Sweden and is spreading to rural areas across the world . In Mr Dobbs 's words , a telecottage is   a room in a village filled with computer communications that can be used by local people to learn and work   . The equipment consists of , perhaps , four word processors , a modem , a laser printer able to produce artwork-quality output , a fax and a photocopier . Software programmes for desk-top publishing , word processing , accounting and business planning are also essential . Mr Dobbs , who is chairman of Telecottages UK , warns possible users not to get bogged down with the technology :   The equipment is a tool to overcome what needs to be done . People must n't think that because there 's a computer , they 've got to think of a use for it .   He reckons there are no shortages of possible uses - farmers can use it to do their accounts , women with child-care responsibilities can work in their own time on the word processors , publicity material for local craftsmen can be produced and so on .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

