<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  social science>PCBs explained From Dame MARY DONALDSON , GBE PCBs - polychlorinated biphenyls - are very inert organic substances , which were prized because they were flexible ( being liquids ) but had very high insulating properties for electricity . They were also used in hydraulic systems because they did not react with the materials used in the pipes and pistons . They do not occur naturally , but were produced commercially for 50 years , beginning in 1929 . They are extremely hard to dispose of . Incineration , which claims a 99.999 per cent destruction rate , is the only known way of eliminating them . But PCBs are a disappearing problem . In the late Seventies many countries , including the UK ( in 1978 ) , banned their manufacture . Remaining stocks ( in electrical equipment , mostly ) are being burned , but traces will remain for many years . PCBs are now ubiquitous at very low levels in the environment , in both town and country .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Much the same old beast , slightly tamed : The new Porsche 911 looks very familiar , says Gavin Green By GAVIN GREEN ALTHOUGH you would never know it , a new range of Porsches has gone on sale in Britain to replace the rear-engined 911 , the longest-lived sports car in the world . Visual clues to the new model include body colour bumpers , small side skirts and a rear spoiler that rises automatically at speeds of more than 50mph ; at low speed or when stationary it retracts , leaving the handsome sweep of the car 's tail clean . But in every other way , the new 911 looks identical to its predecessor . That Porsche can show so little imagination when launching a new model is a corollary both of the popularity of the old 911 ( the only model unaffected by Porsche 's recent slump in sales worldwide ) , and of the conservatism at the top of the Stuttgart company . Predictably , the styling rework has done the look of the 911 no favours : rehashing a beautiful original rarely does . The front bumpers look heavy and bulbous , the side skirts look like add-ons . The whole effect is as if an aftermarket body-kit specialist has had a go at embellishing a 911 , with the predictable result . Still , the new 911 is a better car than the old one , as you 'd expect . It 's more aerodynamic , the interior has been improved ( although not nearly as much as it should have been ) , the new engine has more power and yet is no thirstier , and the new suspension means safer , more predictable , handling . The first Mk2 911 to go on sale in Britain was the Carrera 4 - the four-wheel drive version .

<  Independent: Travel section. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Cautionary tale for enterprising readers By PETER DUNN PERHAPS the Independent Traveller ought to carry some sort of warning :   Reading this section can change your life .   It certainly did for Simon Turner , who read a feature on these pages a year ago written by Godfrey Hodgson on his travels around the Michelin   Red Rocker   hotels in the region around Toulouse in south-west France . Mr Turner was a chartered surveyor who worked for Hamptons estate agents , but had realised that he   patently was n't suited to selling houses   . He confesses that at the age of 40 he had reached   the proverbial midlife crisis   and was searching for a different way of life .   I had holidayed several times in France and was toying with the idea of buying a house there , but with no definite plan in mind . I had already received details of properties in several regions of France , including the Toulouse area , when I providentially read your article ,   At the sign of the Red Rocker   , the catalyst being the mention of a cheap flight to Toulouse from Heathrow for ?116 return .   He immediately booked a flight to Toulouse , saw a house 35 miles north-west of Toulouse in a small hamlet and realised it was ideal as a home as well as an auberge .   I discussed the matter with my wife and signed a contract straight away - without my wife seeing the house . I then left Hamptons and spent two months at the Berlitz School of Language in London .   Mr Turner his wife and three daughters aged eight , six and four moved to France in April and his auberge opened in July .

<  Independent: Book reviews. Auto domain:  arts>Bookshop Window By MISHA DONAT IF THIS WAS HAPPINESS by Barbara Leaming , Weidenfeld & Nicolson ?14.95 Barbara Leaming wrote a biography of Orson Welles almost as fat as its subject . This is a suitably slimmer volume on one of his wives , Rita Hayworth . She was a professional dancer at 12 ; her father partnered her on stage and , according to this book , did far worse to her off it . Screen-tested four years later , she did something nasty to her hairline in the interests of personal sultriness , and was soon starring with Fred Astaire in You 'll Never Get Rich and You Were Never Lovelier . She proved both wrong , getting richer and lovelier by the hour . This led her into masterpieces like Gilda and The Lady from Shanghai , plus a fistful of failed marriages . Ms Leaming tells it all with vim , though the gossip turns her on far more than the movies :   Aly practised an Eastern art of love known as Imsak , which allowed him to exercise indefinite control …   With a bit more Imsak , this could have been a great book . POETS AT WORK , ed . George Plimpton , Penguin ?6.

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  world affairs>Leading Article : Still a need for the big idea By MARY FAGAN NEIL Kinnock and the party he leads are looking better than they have done at any time since he took office in 1983 . There will be ritual rebellion in Brighton from the Transport and General Workers Union over Labour 's belated renunciation of unilateral nuclear disarmament . But Ron Todd , the union 's general secretary , is expected to concede defeat gracefully . Even if other antinuclear fundamentalists threaten to fight , fight and fight again , Mr Kinnock need have no fear . The more firmly he tells them and the country that , as Prime Minister , he and not they will rule , the more likely it is that he will eventually reach Downing Street . On other issues , crucial victories have been won before the Labour Party 's annual conference opens . Relatively few influential activists would now quarrel with the recognition that markets are an effective way of generating wealth and indicating consumer preferences . Few want the wholesale repeal of industrial relations legislation . Even the popular belief that the unions exercise too much power over Labour policies is gradually being accepted by a number of union leaders . Paradoxically , the more moderate of them are insisting on the maintenance of their block votes because the party is still not fully democratic .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

