<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  arts>Talk of the Trade : Autumn price fall By PETER DUNN PETER FRASER , owner of the Classic Bookshop and opponent of the Net Book Agreement , has complained to Michael Joseph and the Booksellers ' Association about The Sunday Times 's special autumn offer of Edith Holden 's The Nature Notes of an Edwardian Lady , published tomorrow . He is aggrieved because , although it is being sold at the NBA price of ?15.95 , purchasers are also receiving special prints with the book . Michael Joseph says there has been no breach :   The Sunday Times 's promotion is theirs , not ours .   Mr Fraser , with bookshops in Sherborne , Bristol and Bath , says he will probably sell the book for ?13 . Talk of the Trade : Victims ' voice By PETER DUNN PEOPLE savaged by the tabloids are banding together to fight back . On last week 's Hard News on Channel 4 , Linda Joyce , the Princess Royal 's former maid , announced the formation of an organisation called Response , through which victims of the yellow press can compare experiences and seek redress . When letters were stolen from the Princess Royal in April , Miss Joyce was questioned by police and some newspapers jumped to the wrong conclusion that she was responsible . Joint founder of Response is Josephine Hunt , whose long-running battle with The Sun , which called her handicapped son   the worst brat in Britain' , was also featured . Talk of the Trade : Chamber chat By PETER DUNN A SATELLITE channel transmitting the proceedings of the British Parliament and overseas legislatures has been suggested by the Astra satellite company , Marketing Week reports .

<  The Guardian: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook . By Edited by Alex Brummer CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System . But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community , the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim , who have been meeting in Australia , might not have bothered . The first , albeit tenative , steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe : movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips . Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks : the EC based around the West German economy ; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area , and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre . But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State , Mr James Baker , are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum . It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community : a suggestion rudely rebuffed . The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US , Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande . Now it is making a third bid for influence . It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe .

<  The Guardian: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letters . By PETER STANFORD is right in maintaining ( Weekend Guardian , November 4 ) that Graham Greene is not alone in calling himself a   Catholic agnostic   . An earlier thinker who declined to see any mutual contradiction between similar terms was Leslie Weatherhead , psychologist and cleric , who published his Creed of a Christian Agnostic . Weatherhead was honest enough to realise that there are many aspects of religion about which one has to remain uncertain , that is , agnostic . These   difficult   areas will vary from one individual to another . As a self-confessed Christian agnostic he himself , however , was sure of a number of the major tenets of Christianity . His   creed   claimed ( in part ) :   I believe that God exists … I believe there is mind behind the universe … Such a mind must be love rather than hate … I believe in the divinity of Christ … I believe that sin is a grisly fact in the world … I believe that God 's forgiveness is one of the most blessed and therapeutic experiences and that it is offered to all who seek it … I believe that our relationship with God is the most important thing in the world … I believe that each individual is precious to God .   Within this creed appear supportive rational arguments but also agnostic admissions , such as   I can understand little about that mind   and   I do not know what   divine   means   . I imagine that many honest people would sympathise with Weatherhead and happily echo his final paragraph :   All this gives me as much as I need , and seems to me the essential credo of Christianity . About the rest I am content to be agnostic .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  belief and thought>BOOK REVIEW Thatcher 's early days on the seat of power :   Margaret , Daughter of Beatrice   - Leo Abse : Jonathan Cape , 12.95 pounds By AUBERON WAUGH IN A LONG apologia for having had the temerity to undertake a psycho-biography of Mrs Thatcher , Leo Abse denies that his book is a personal attack on her , but agrees that it may have some admonitory function in warning people not to acquiesce too readily in the disposition of someone who would appear , on his argument , to be gravely unbalanced . His justification for the necessary invasion of privacy is the familiar - and thoroughly respectable - plea that politics should and must be personalised . Politics has very little to do with issues ; it is all to do with the personal vanities and ambitions of politicians . Or so he says at the beginning of his book . By the end , with an extended sermon on the emptiness of individualist ethics , he is pleading for a return to the benevolence in public affairs which Thatcher can not supply by nature of having been denied her mother 's breast , given the wrong sort of potty training , etc . There are two objections to this sort of psycho-biography . The first lies in the extent to which all evidence adduced depends on guesswork . Abse has not put Thatcher on the analyst 's couch , and does not pretend to have done so . Everything is taken from previously published material .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

