<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  leisure>INTERVIEW Consuming passions : Alan Howard talks to Sheila Johnston about his role in Greenaway 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover By SHEILA JOHNSTON It is not every day that an actor gets eaten in a movie . In Peter Greena way 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover , Alan Howard , as the lover , passes through a restaurant , a kitchen , a cold store and a lorry full of putrifying flesh ; eventually ( the cuckolded Thief , played by Michael Gambon , having visited a terrible revenge ) , his naked corpse is served up , finely glazed and garnished , as an unannounced extra item on the menu . It is a meaty role .   They made a cast of my body , in sections , the torso , then the legs , then the head . It 's very weird to see yourself ; looking in the mirror is not the same thing as seeing yourself three-dimensionally , which is very , very peculiar ,   says Howard , who politely declined the chance to take his effigy home at the end of filming . By some accounts , both his and Gambon 's agent found the script pornographic , and audiences at early screenings were repulsed by the brutality ( although the film opens today to piquant reviews ) .   I was profoundly unnerved when I read the screenplay ; quite shaking with fear and disturbance . I suppose , though , that if Titus Andronicus came through the letter-box as a new script , you would be a bit shocked . But the violence , to me , is not arbitrary ; it 's a manifestation of the Thief as a power for evil . What he does with the power is bound to be upsetting .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  social science>PCBs explained From Dame MARY DONALDSON , GBE PCBs - polychlorinated biphenyls - are very inert organic substances , which were prized because they were flexible ( being liquids ) but had very high insulating properties for electricity . They were also used in hydraulic systems because they did not react with the materials used in the pipes and pistons . They do not occur naturally , but were produced commercially for 50 years , beginning in 1929 . They are extremely hard to dispose of . Incineration , which claims a 99.999 per cent destruction rate , is the only known way of eliminating them . But PCBs are a disappearing problem . In the late Seventies many countries , including the UK ( in 1978 ) , banned their manufacture . Remaining stocks ( in electrical equipment , mostly ) are being burned , but traces will remain for many years . PCBs are now ubiquitous at very low levels in the environment , in both town and country .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Much the same old beast , slightly tamed : The new Porsche 911 looks very familiar , says Gavin Green By GAVIN GREEN ALTHOUGH you would never know it , a new range of Porsches has gone on sale in Britain to replace the rear-engined 911 , the longest-lived sports car in the world . Visual clues to the new model include body colour bumpers , small side skirts and a rear spoiler that rises automatically at speeds of more than 50mph ; at low speed or when stationary it retracts , leaving the handsome sweep of the car 's tail clean . But in every other way , the new 911 looks identical to its predecessor . That Porsche can show so little imagination when launching a new model is a corollary both of the popularity of the old 911 ( the only model unaffected by Porsche 's recent slump in sales worldwide ) , and of the conservatism at the top of the Stuttgart company . Predictably , the styling rework has done the look of the 911 no favours : rehashing a beautiful original rarely does . The front bumpers look heavy and bulbous , the side skirts look like add-ons . The whole effect is as if an aftermarket body-kit specialist has had a go at embellishing a 911 , with the predictable result . Still , the new 911 is a better car than the old one , as you 'd expect . It 's more aerodynamic , the interior has been improved ( although not nearly as much as it should have been ) , the new engine has more power and yet is no thirstier , and the new suspension means safer , more predictable , handling . The first Mk2 911 to go on sale in Britain was the Carrera 4 - the four-wheel drive version .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

