<  Independent: Book reviews. Auto domain:  arts>Bookshop Window By MISHA DONAT IF THIS WAS HAPPINESS by Barbara Leaming , Weidenfeld & Nicolson ?14.95 Barbara Leaming wrote a biography of Orson Welles almost as fat as its subject . This is a suitably slimmer volume on one of his wives , Rita Hayworth . She was a professional dancer at 12 ; her father partnered her on stage and , according to this book , did far worse to her off it . Screen-tested four years later , she did something nasty to her hairline in the interests of personal sultriness , and was soon starring with Fred Astaire in You 'll Never Get Rich and You Were Never Lovelier . She proved both wrong , getting richer and lovelier by the hour . This led her into masterpieces like Gilda and The Lady from Shanghai , plus a fistful of failed marriages . Ms Leaming tells it all with vim , though the gossip turns her on far more than the movies :   Aly practised an Eastern art of love known as Imsak , which allowed him to exercise indefinite control …   With a bit more Imsak , this could have been a great book . POETS AT WORK , ed . George Plimpton , Penguin ?6.

<  Daily Telegraph: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letter to the Editor : Gay sex is subversive SIR Ian McKellen ( Letters , March 29 ) must not be allowed to get away with his blanket assertion that equality for homosexuals has been established throughout Europe . One has to distinguish between the individual and the practice . Europeans recognise that some individuals are by nature homosexual ; as individuals , they must be respected and their rights must be protected . But let us not be led astray : the practice of homosexuality is anathema to all Christian people and not just in Europe . It can only subvert the young . Richard T. Jones Southport , Letter to the Editor : Pope 's guidance in election SIR - Can I , as a Catholic , following the guidance of Pope John Paul II , vote for the Labour Party manifesto ? That depends on how seriously I take the special letter on the life issues of abortion and euthanasia he wrote last May to his bishops . He urged them to act decisively for   the inviolable right to life , which belongs to every person from conception until life 's natural end   . Earlier in 1991 he had urged   the promotion of the culture of life in the face of the culture of death   . He castigated the anti-life practices of abortion and euthanasia as   crimes of totalitarianism against the most defenceless of human beings   .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  leisure>INTERVIEW Consuming passions : Alan Howard talks to Sheila Johnston about his role in Greenaway 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover By SHEILA JOHNSTON It is not every day that an actor gets eaten in a movie . In Peter Greena way 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover , Alan Howard , as the lover , passes through a restaurant , a kitchen , a cold store and a lorry full of putrifying flesh ; eventually ( the cuckolded Thief , played by Michael Gambon , having visited a terrible revenge ) , his naked corpse is served up , finely glazed and garnished , as an unannounced extra item on the menu . It is a meaty role .   They made a cast of my body , in sections , the torso , then the legs , then the head . It 's very weird to see yourself ; looking in the mirror is not the same thing as seeing yourself three-dimensionally , which is very , very peculiar ,   says Howard , who politely declined the chance to take his effigy home at the end of filming . By some accounts , both his and Gambon 's agent found the script pornographic , and audiences at early screenings were repulsed by the brutality ( although the film opens today to piquant reviews ) .   I was profoundly unnerved when I read the screenplay ; quite shaking with fear and disturbance . I suppose , though , that if Titus Andronicus came through the letter-box as a new script , you would be a bit shocked . But the violence , to me , is not arbitrary ; it 's a manifestation of the Thief as a power for evil . What he does with the power is bound to be upsetting .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Court Circular By JOHN LICHFIELD BUCKINGHAM PALACE 30 September : The Princess Royal this morning visited Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Deputy Lieutenant for Hampshire ( Captain MPR Boyle ) . Her Royal Highness , President of the Royal Yachting Association , attended the 1.3 Litre World Powerboat Championships and opened the Southampton Vessel Traffic Services Centre . The Princess Royal travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight . Major Nicholas Barne was in attendance . 1 October : The Prince of Wales attended a service in Dornoch Cathedral to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dornoch Cathedral Parish . Subsequently , His Royal Highness visited the Lawson Memorial Hospital , Golspie . Commander Richard Aylard RN was in attendance . 1 October : The Princess Royal , Patron , Royal Lymington Yacht Club , this morning attended the X One-Design Class Division Invitation Race at Lymington , Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Vice-Commodore ( Mr John Guillaume ) . Her Royal Highness travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  arts>Talk of the Trade : Autumn price fall By PETER DUNN PETER FRASER , owner of the Classic Bookshop and opponent of the Net Book Agreement , has complained to Michael Joseph and the Booksellers ' Association about The Sunday Times 's special autumn offer of Edith Holden 's The Nature Notes of an Edwardian Lady , published tomorrow . He is aggrieved because , although it is being sold at the NBA price of ?15.95 , purchasers are also receiving special prints with the book . Michael Joseph says there has been no breach :   The Sunday Times 's promotion is theirs , not ours .   Mr Fraser , with bookshops in Sherborne , Bristol and Bath , says he will probably sell the book for ?13 . Talk of the Trade : Victims ' voice By PETER DUNN PEOPLE savaged by the tabloids are banding together to fight back . On last week 's Hard News on Channel 4 , Linda Joyce , the Princess Royal 's former maid , announced the formation of an organisation called Response , through which victims of the yellow press can compare experiences and seek redress . When letters were stolen from the Princess Royal in April , Miss Joyce was questioned by police and some newspapers jumped to the wrong conclusion that she was responsible . Joint founder of Response is Josephine Hunt , whose long-running battle with The Sun , which called her handicapped son   the worst brat in Britain' , was also featured . Talk of the Trade : Chamber chat By PETER DUNN A SATELLITE channel transmitting the proceedings of the British Parliament and overseas legislatures has been suggested by the Astra satellite company , Marketing Week reports .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

