<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Independent: Property section. Auto domain:  commerce>Property : Cottage charms By SUE FIELDMAN THE reputed birthplace of Bob Fitzsimmons , world heavyweight boxing champion in 1897 , is one of the 100 or more properties to be auctioned by the Bristol and West between 18-20 October . The house ( right ) at 61 Wendron Street in Helston , Cornwall , has a guide price of ?55,000-?70,000 and a blue plaque in honour of Fitzsimmons . It will be auctioned at the Alverton Manor Hotel , Truro , on 19 October , at 3pm . Ferryman 's Cottage ( left ) , at Noss Mayo in South Devon , is to be auctioned on its own by Strutt & Parker ( 0392 215631 ) on 26 October . The two-bedroom cottage needs refurbishment but it is in a superb location , in the middle of woodland owned by the National Trust and overlooking the River Yealm . The guide price is ?150,000 . Property : Forward Planning : Making Proposals : Influencing the decision-makers : Allison Flight fills in the background to a planning application By ALLISON FLIGHT THE planning system is designed around the idea that people should have a say in what happens to their immediate surroundings . But how do you find out about whether a planning application has been made in the first place ? Whether you are proposing or opposing an application , what is the best way to influence the decision that is eventually made ? Finding out about an application : Under section 28 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 the planning authority - usually the local council - is supposed to advertise certain planning applications in the local newspaper . The proposals covered are development in a conservation area , works to a listed building or which affect the setting of a conservation area or a listed building , and developments in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty . The planning authority also has to advertise locally any proposals involving large buildings ( those more than 20 metres high ) , or any   unneighbourly uses   - such as a casino , scrap yard , cemetery or slaughterhouse - and put up a notice on the site itself .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  Independent: Travel pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Palin the globe-trotter By FRANK BARRETT ON THE fae of things , Michael Palin seems an unlikely double for the archetypal stiff upperlipped phlegmatic Englsihman Phileas Fogg , hero of Jules Verne 's Around the World in Eighty Days . Palin , ex-Python star - most recently appearing as Ken in A Fish Called Wanda - was invited by BBC 2 to tread in Fogg 's footsteps by recreating the fictional journey . ( Alan Whicker , it seems , was first choice : Palin makes an interesting substitute given the wicked Python parody of Whicker Island : a place full of Alan Whickers endlessly interviewing each other . ) It 's hard to imagine Mr Fogg , for example , ever having been a train-spotter : if there was any train-spotting to be done , Mr Fogg would have despatched his loyal French manservant Passepartout to do it on his behalf . Yet young Palin , who grew up in Sheffield , was an enthusiastic train spotter , neatly underlining each newly spotted locomotive in his Ian Allan book .   I did n't cross them out - that would have been too much like defacing the book ,   he says . And while he has travelled a lot since the success of Monty Python , as a child his family holidays were spent in the unadventurous climes of Southwold and East Anglia ( recalled in his TV play East of Ipswich ) . He travelled far , however , in his imagination .   I 'd been everywhere in books : I read a lot about exotic places . And I went to church every Sunday where we used to have missionaries who would come and tell tales about how they built churches in jungle clearings with lions gnawing at their legs .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

<  Independent: Health pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Health : Lively young woman seeks normal life : Elaine Heath , who is severely paralysed , tells Cherrill Hicks of the daily constraints she faces By CHERRILL HICKS ELAINE HEATH likes pink eye glitter and a vodka and orange before lunch . She reads Lenin , Lawrence and supports CND . Elaine is also severely disabled by cerebral palsy : she can use neither her arms nor legs , and she can only communicate by making noises , or by operating an electric typewriter with her nose . In spite of her disability , Elaine has in the past led a remarkably active and normal life . She has been through a marriage , a divorce , and a serious love affair ; learnt Russian , written regularly for a local paper and taught a young child disabled by a stroke to read again . But Elaine no longer has a close relationship to give her the support she needs . Without it , she has become a virtual prisoner in her own home ; she is ruled by the clock and the hours worked by her local authority helpers . Unable to go away for weekends or holidays , she never goes out at night to dinner parties , discos or evening classes . Her life has become intolerable , she says , ever since she became a social services   project   . In the mornings Elaine can not get up before 9am - which is when her care assistant starts work .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  arts>Architecture : Invisible buildings that reflect nothing : The subtopian , A-road design of many of our cities is destroying their character , Jonathan Glancey believes . Most critics ignore the dreariness of our streets , but it is time for the public to demand better By JONATHAN GLANCEY THIS is the architecture that dare not speak its name . It professes no particular architectural creed ; it belongs to no recognisable school of design . Tags such as Modern , Post-Modern , High-Tech or even Neo-Classical are wholly redundant when you stare at this subtopian , A-road architecture . The specialist architectural press ignores this amorphous school of design , while even the Prince of Wales has nothing to say on the subject , reserving his spleen for imaginative buildings that he and so many of his future subjects profess to hate . The current architectural debate has served to polarise popular opinion on modern architecture . Richard Rogers and the bravura City of London headquarters he designed for Lloyds are presented as unmitigated villains . The burgeoning Neo-Classical architects , such as John Simpson and Quinlan Terry , are , by nature of the style they choose to work in , a good thing . Modern British architects worth their salt , or future knighthoods , can be counted on a few colour spreads of the Prince of Wales 's bestselling book A Vision of Britain . But a national debate on architecture at this level is as banal as it is unhelpful .

<  Independent: Gardening pages. Auto domain:  leisure>In the Garden Update : Prize fruit and veg From MARC CHAMPION in Washington PRIZES will be awarded for the best carnations and bonsai at the Royal Horticultural Society 's show in Greycoat Street , London SW1 , to be held this Tuesday ( 11am-7pm , admission ?2.50 ) and Wednesday ( 10am-5pm , admission ?1.50 ) . There will also be displays of autumn fruit and vegetables . In the Garden Update : Growing classes Weekend Garden Page 43 In the Garden Update : Weekend work From MARC CHAMPION in Washington SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now . The summer 's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows , clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover . Keep away from jasmine , already thick in flower bud , and clematis , however untidy . Buddleias , although messy , should not be cut back until spring . Dead , ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed , cutting where the stem joins the main branch . Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

