<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Independent: Property section. Auto domain:  commerce>Property : Cottage charms By SUE FIELDMAN THE reputed birthplace of Bob Fitzsimmons , world heavyweight boxing champion in 1897 , is one of the 100 or more properties to be auctioned by the Bristol and West between 18-20 October . The house ( right ) at 61 Wendron Street in Helston , Cornwall , has a guide price of ?55,000-?70,000 and a blue plaque in honour of Fitzsimmons . It will be auctioned at the Alverton Manor Hotel , Truro , on 19 October , at 3pm . Ferryman 's Cottage ( left ) , at Noss Mayo in South Devon , is to be auctioned on its own by Strutt & Parker ( 0392 215631 ) on 26 October . The two-bedroom cottage needs refurbishment but it is in a superb location , in the middle of woodland owned by the National Trust and overlooking the River Yealm . The guide price is ?150,000 . Property : Forward Planning : Making Proposals : Influencing the decision-makers : Allison Flight fills in the background to a planning application By ALLISON FLIGHT THE planning system is designed around the idea that people should have a say in what happens to their immediate surroundings . But how do you find out about whether a planning application has been made in the first place ? Whether you are proposing or opposing an application , what is the best way to influence the decision that is eventually made ? Finding out about an application : Under section 28 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 the planning authority - usually the local council - is supposed to advertise certain planning applications in the local newspaper . The proposals covered are development in a conservation area , works to a listed building or which affect the setting of a conservation area or a listed building , and developments in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty . The planning authority also has to advertise locally any proposals involving large buildings ( those more than 20 metres high ) , or any   unneighbourly uses   - such as a casino , scrap yard , cemetery or slaughterhouse - and put up a notice on the site itself .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Travel section. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Cautionary tale for enterprising readers By PETER DUNN PERHAPS the Independent Traveller ought to carry some sort of warning :   Reading this section can change your life .   It certainly did for Simon Turner , who read a feature on these pages a year ago written by Godfrey Hodgson on his travels around the Michelin   Red Rocker   hotels in the region around Toulouse in south-west France . Mr Turner was a chartered surveyor who worked for Hamptons estate agents , but had realised that he   patently was n't suited to selling houses   . He confesses that at the age of 40 he had reached   the proverbial midlife crisis   and was searching for a different way of life .   I had holidayed several times in France and was toying with the idea of buying a house there , but with no definite plan in mind . I had already received details of properties in several regions of France , including the Toulouse area , when I providentially read your article ,   At the sign of the Red Rocker   , the catalyst being the mention of a cheap flight to Toulouse from Heathrow for ?116 return .   He immediately booked a flight to Toulouse , saw a house 35 miles north-west of Toulouse in a small hamlet and realised it was ideal as a home as well as an auberge .   I discussed the matter with my wife and signed a contract straight away - without my wife seeing the house . I then left Hamptons and spent two months at the Berlitz School of Language in London .   Mr Turner his wife and three daughters aged eight , six and four moved to France in April and his auberge opened in July .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

