<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

<  Independent: Travel section. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Cautionary tale for enterprising readers By PETER DUNN PERHAPS the Independent Traveller ought to carry some sort of warning :   Reading this section can change your life .   It certainly did for Simon Turner , who read a feature on these pages a year ago written by Godfrey Hodgson on his travels around the Michelin   Red Rocker   hotels in the region around Toulouse in south-west France . Mr Turner was a chartered surveyor who worked for Hamptons estate agents , but had realised that he   patently was n't suited to selling houses   . He confesses that at the age of 40 he had reached   the proverbial midlife crisis   and was searching for a different way of life .   I had holidayed several times in France and was toying with the idea of buying a house there , but with no definite plan in mind . I had already received details of properties in several regions of France , including the Toulouse area , when I providentially read your article ,   At the sign of the Red Rocker   , the catalyst being the mention of a cheap flight to Toulouse from Heathrow for ?116 return .   He immediately booked a flight to Toulouse , saw a house 35 miles north-west of Toulouse in a small hamlet and realised it was ideal as a home as well as an auberge .   I discussed the matter with my wife and signed a contract straight away - without my wife seeing the house . I then left Hamptons and spent two months at the Berlitz School of Language in London .   Mr Turner his wife and three daughters aged eight , six and four moved to France in April and his auberge opened in July .

<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Daily Telegraph: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letter to the Editor : Gay sex is subversive SIR Ian McKellen ( Letters , March 29 ) must not be allowed to get away with his blanket assertion that equality for homosexuals has been established throughout Europe . One has to distinguish between the individual and the practice . Europeans recognise that some individuals are by nature homosexual ; as individuals , they must be respected and their rights must be protected . But let us not be led astray : the practice of homosexuality is anathema to all Christian people and not just in Europe . It can only subvert the young . Richard T. Jones Southport , Letter to the Editor : Pope 's guidance in election SIR - Can I , as a Catholic , following the guidance of Pope John Paul II , vote for the Labour Party manifesto ? That depends on how seriously I take the special letter on the life issues of abortion and euthanasia he wrote last May to his bishops . He urged them to act decisively for   the inviolable right to life , which belongs to every person from conception until life 's natural end   . Earlier in 1991 he had urged   the promotion of the culture of life in the face of the culture of death   . He castigated the anti-life practices of abortion and euthanasia as   crimes of totalitarianism against the most defenceless of human beings   .

<  Independent: Food pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Food : The test of a true boar : British gourmets could soon go the whole hog , writes Henrietta Green By HENRIETTA GREEN WILD BOAR once roamed the fields and forests of Britain . They were the sport of rich noblemen who hunted and ate them with terrific enthusiasm - until there were none . Now there are plans afoot to reintroduce them to Britain on a grand scale for the   gourmet   market . Not as wild boar running free and doing untold damage to the countryside , as in Italy , France and Germany ; but as farmed wild boar which should ease your mind , even if it causes the farmers untold headaches . Thus it was , last Friday , that the inaugural meeting of the British Wild Boar Association took place . It was held , appropriately , on the first day of Michaelmas when , in medieval times , pigs were traditionally turned out into the woods to fatten up on acorns . It got off to a hairy start with several heated discussions about what a wild boar is . Does   wild   mean how it is kept ? Can it be farmed intensively or should it only be reared extensively ? Does the name cover only pure-bred wild boars or can it include a cross , bred with a domestic pig ? If crosses are to be allowed , what percentage of cross is acceptable ? And just because it looks like a wild boar with the striped marking or   agouti   ( long snout , straight tail and small pointy ears ) , can it be accepted as such without a genetic test ? Pretty technical stuff this , with enough contentious issues to make every boar farmer 's hair curl . As Robert Spencer Bernard , barrister and part-time farmer of wild boar for several years on his Buckinghamshire estate , said :   A tiger is a tiger whether you see it in the London Zoo or in the Indian forests , but with a wild boar the argument is n't so simple .   We had been herded together to discuss this and other issues by Dr Derek Booth , animal geneticist and scientist .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  social science>Obituary : Francis Goodman By TERENCE PEPPER FRANCIS GOODMAN was one of the many bright talents that flourished in the art of taking fashion and portrait photographs in London in the 1930s .   Franzi   was born in London in 1913 , but was brought up from 1919 onwards in Munich , where he first experimented with photography . The German-Jewish family moved back to London in 1931 , where the 18-year-old Goodman took his first job as an apprentice to the leading commercial photographer of the day , Shaw Wildman . Wildman pioneered advertising and fashion photography in Britain , specifically outdoor location work , as well as creating natural indoor lighting . Darkroom work for Cecil Beaton ( whom he also regularly photographed ) and for Peter Rose Pulham ( whose studio he took over in Berkeley Square when the latter went to Paris to become a painter ) provided Goodman with the visual stimulus that helped create his most imaginative work . By the mid-1930s his work was regularly appearing in all the society magazines as well as in Harper 's Bazaar ( then under the creative art editorship of AY McPeake ) , in the company of his avant-garde contemporaries such as Rose Pulham , Winifred Casson and Barbara Ker-Seymer and other innovators of the time . Goodman 's Thirties portraits taken in the studio often relied on specially-painted backdrops , such as John Banting produced for his work with Ker-Seymer , or echoed the classic compositional motifs pioneered by Hoyningen Huene and adapted by Wildman . Unfortunately , most of his work from this period - with the exception of two portraits of Anna May Wong and Gertrude Lawrence - was lost in the Second World War , and is only traceable in the prestigious pages of The Studio 's Photography Year Book of 1935 . Known as FJ Gutmann in the 1930s , he anglicised his name to Goodman for the war years , serving in the ranks as a soldier before becoming attached to the Royal Air Force 's Photographic Interpretation Unit at Medmenham by the war 's end . He returned to portraiture in 1945 , this time working out of the studio in his sitters ' home environment with three portable floods .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

