<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Much the same old beast , slightly tamed : The new Porsche 911 looks very familiar , says Gavin Green By GAVIN GREEN ALTHOUGH you would never know it , a new range of Porsches has gone on sale in Britain to replace the rear-engined 911 , the longest-lived sports car in the world . Visual clues to the new model include body colour bumpers , small side skirts and a rear spoiler that rises automatically at speeds of more than 50mph ; at low speed or when stationary it retracts , leaving the handsome sweep of the car 's tail clean . But in every other way , the new 911 looks identical to its predecessor . That Porsche can show so little imagination when launching a new model is a corollary both of the popularity of the old 911 ( the only model unaffected by Porsche 's recent slump in sales worldwide ) , and of the conservatism at the top of the Stuttgart company . Predictably , the styling rework has done the look of the 911 no favours : rehashing a beautiful original rarely does . The front bumpers look heavy and bulbous , the side skirts look like add-ons . The whole effect is as if an aftermarket body-kit specialist has had a go at embellishing a 911 , with the predictable result . Still , the new 911 is a better car than the old one , as you 'd expect . It 's more aerodynamic , the interior has been improved ( although not nearly as much as it should have been ) , the new engine has more power and yet is no thirstier , and the new suspension means safer , more predictable , handling . The first Mk2 911 to go on sale in Britain was the Carrera 4 - the four-wheel drive version .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Independent: Law section. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Why we must tame the state Leviathan : Greater use of judicial review would help people fight bad decisions by public bodies , Anthony Lester says By ANTHONY LESTER WHEN I began practice at the Bar 25 years ago , phrases such as   judicial review of administrative action   ,   public law   , or   fundamental human rights and freedoms   sounded strange to English judges and lawyers . They described apparently alien , un-English ideas , taken from Continental or United States systems . Successive generations of politicians , civil servants , judges and philosophers reared on a meagre intellectual diet of pragmatic utilitarianism and positivism had firmly rejected these ideas as a basis for ensuring constitutional government and citizens ' rights . For them , written constitutions , Bills of Rights , and a special system of administrative law regulating relations between government and the governed were exotic , inedible fruits of the American and French Revolutions . According to the conventional British wisdom of the middle of the century , our flexible unwritten constitution , our democratic Parliament , the sense of fair play of our permanent civil service , and our vigorous and vigilant free Press were safer and more effective guarantees of personal freedom than a Continental or American-style   government of judges   . A quarter of a century later , the conventional wisdom of British mandarins looks complacent , self-serving , ill-informed , and outmoded - especially in the light of the many serious breaches by the United Kingdom of the European Convention on Human Rights . The powers of British central government are greater than those enjoyed by any other democratic country of comparable size . Between elections , a government with a sufficient parliamentary majority obedient to its will is absolute and omnipotent . Because it is not subject to the paramount law of a written constitution , it can make or unmake any law as it chooses . It can legislate arbitrarily to deprive groups of citizens of their basic rights or freedoms , to enlarge its own powers at the expense of local government , to weaken the ability of the media to inform the public , or to sap judicial independence .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Talk of the Trade : Antiques record By ANN ROBERTS THE first antiques   freesheet   is claiming to have topped the circulation of every other antiques magazine just four months ( and one issue ) after its launch . The World of Antiques is produced quarterly from a cottage in Somerset by Duncan and Jacki Phillips and distributed to everyone who visits antiques fairs around the country - estimated at 50,000 people every three months . The top-selling magazines have a circulation of around 14,000 . Talk of the Trade : Technical hitch By ANN ROBERTS THERE are grumblings among BBC Television technical staff , whose objections to cramped studio conditions caused a two-week delay in the launch of the new Breakfast News . When it was eventually launched last week , critics - including our own Mark Lawson - noticed a number of technical blips . The next day a high-tech caption machine broke down .   Talk of the Trade : Disputed Record By ANN ROBERTS RUPERT MURDOCH 's News International is furious that the Audit Bureau of Circulations has allowed Robert Maxwell 's Daily Mirror to include the sales of its Scottish sister paper the Daily Record in calculating its circulation figures . Together , the Mirror and Record sales amount to 3,900,000 - only 200,000 below The Sun . The Mirror sells 3,200,000 on it own . NI insists that the Mirror and the Record are separate newspapers with different editors and very little common content , even selling at different cover prices .

<  Daily Telegraph: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letter to the Editor : Gay sex is subversive SIR Ian McKellen ( Letters , March 29 ) must not be allowed to get away with his blanket assertion that equality for homosexuals has been established throughout Europe . One has to distinguish between the individual and the practice . Europeans recognise that some individuals are by nature homosexual ; as individuals , they must be respected and their rights must be protected . But let us not be led astray : the practice of homosexuality is anathema to all Christian people and not just in Europe . It can only subvert the young . Richard T. Jones Southport , Letter to the Editor : Pope 's guidance in election SIR - Can I , as a Catholic , following the guidance of Pope John Paul II , vote for the Labour Party manifesto ? That depends on how seriously I take the special letter on the life issues of abortion and euthanasia he wrote last May to his bishops . He urged them to act decisively for   the inviolable right to life , which belongs to every person from conception until life 's natural end   . Earlier in 1991 he had urged   the promotion of the culture of life in the face of the culture of death   . He castigated the anti-life practices of abortion and euthanasia as   crimes of totalitarianism against the most defenceless of human beings   .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

