<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts >DAY OUT Fields of human conflict : David Keys on permanent reminders of the Second World War … By DAVID KEYS The 50th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War has largely been an armchair affair , commemorated in newspapers and magazines , on the radio and television . However , outside your sitting room thousands of wartime military installations still survive as historically important reminders of Britain 's epic struggle . Fighter and Bomber Command airfields , anti tank defences , gun emplacements , prisoner of war camps - and some 6,000 pillboxes still form part of the landscape in many areas of the country . In the heart of London 's Whitehall visitors can explore the warren of cramped underground rooms and passageways which served as the nerve centre of Britain 's war effort . Known as the Cabinet War Rooms , the complex has only been open to the public since 1983 . Inside , one can still see the Map Room , where Churchill used to study the progress of the war , the Cabinet Room where many of the Second World War 's most important decisions were made , and Churchill 's personal accommodation from which he made several of his wartime broadcasts . In the space of 12 months the War Office built 25,000 pillboxes - almost a quarter of which still survive - and erected hundreds of miles of concrete anti-tank defences . On windswept lonely Chesil Beach - that great ten mile long pile of pebbles which stretches westwards along the Dorset coast from Portland - one can still explore the pillboxes and anti-tank defences which were built in 1940 to resist the threat of invasion . And later in the war , in 1943 , it was this imposing natural wall of shingle which was used by the famous Dambusters as a practice target before their attack on the Mohne and Eder dams in Germany . Fifty miles inland , the remains of the wartime government 's fall-back line of defence still survives , mostly along the line of the Kennett-Avon canal .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Travel section. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Cautionary tale for enterprising readers By PETER DUNN PERHAPS the Independent Traveller ought to carry some sort of warning :   Reading this section can change your life .   It certainly did for Simon Turner , who read a feature on these pages a year ago written by Godfrey Hodgson on his travels around the Michelin   Red Rocker   hotels in the region around Toulouse in south-west France . Mr Turner was a chartered surveyor who worked for Hamptons estate agents , but had realised that he   patently was n't suited to selling houses   . He confesses that at the age of 40 he had reached   the proverbial midlife crisis   and was searching for a different way of life .   I had holidayed several times in France and was toying with the idea of buying a house there , but with no definite plan in mind . I had already received details of properties in several regions of France , including the Toulouse area , when I providentially read your article ,   At the sign of the Red Rocker   , the catalyst being the mention of a cheap flight to Toulouse from Heathrow for ?116 return .   He immediately booked a flight to Toulouse , saw a house 35 miles north-west of Toulouse in a small hamlet and realised it was ideal as a home as well as an auberge .   I discussed the matter with my wife and signed a contract straight away - without my wife seeing the house . I then left Hamptons and spent two months at the Berlitz School of Language in London .   Mr Turner his wife and three daughters aged eight , six and four moved to France in April and his auberge opened in July .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Daily Telegraph: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Letter to the Editor : Original dish SIR - In 1813 Sir Thomas Bernard published a pamphlet , An Account of a Supply of Fish for the Manufacturing Poor , which proposed to ameliorate the poverty among working people in London by increasing the supply of fish . A Fish Association was duly set up under the chairmanship of the Duke of Kent . In one report the association described the success of the fish industry in Penzance , mentioning that the shortage of corn lead to its replacement by increased potato planting . So there you have it : fish and chips were a West Country invention . BILL WEST Exeter , Devon Leading Article : Horses for courses FOR THE thoughtful punter , with cash in hand , at least two openings present themselves this morning - the Grand National and next week 's General Election . Weighing his chances , the punter will naturally examine respective odds . There is nothing at Aintree much shorter than 6 to 1 , whereas the two main parties in the General Election are offered on narrower terms . There are also minor differences of which to take account . A gambler , taking a sudden fancy to Mr Kinnock and planting ?25,000 on Labour - not a course we recommend - will be felt instantly in this modest market , and shift the odds overnight . He would make less stir in the larger Aintree pool .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

