<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Law section. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Why we must tame the state Leviathan : Greater use of judicial review would help people fight bad decisions by public bodies , Anthony Lester says By ANTHONY LESTER WHEN I began practice at the Bar 25 years ago , phrases such as   judicial review of administrative action   ,   public law   , or   fundamental human rights and freedoms   sounded strange to English judges and lawyers . They described apparently alien , un-English ideas , taken from Continental or United States systems . Successive generations of politicians , civil servants , judges and philosophers reared on a meagre intellectual diet of pragmatic utilitarianism and positivism had firmly rejected these ideas as a basis for ensuring constitutional government and citizens ' rights . For them , written constitutions , Bills of Rights , and a special system of administrative law regulating relations between government and the governed were exotic , inedible fruits of the American and French Revolutions . According to the conventional British wisdom of the middle of the century , our flexible unwritten constitution , our democratic Parliament , the sense of fair play of our permanent civil service , and our vigorous and vigilant free Press were safer and more effective guarantees of personal freedom than a Continental or American-style   government of judges   . A quarter of a century later , the conventional wisdom of British mandarins looks complacent , self-serving , ill-informed , and outmoded - especially in the light of the many serious breaches by the United Kingdom of the European Convention on Human Rights . The powers of British central government are greater than those enjoyed by any other democratic country of comparable size . Between elections , a government with a sufficient parliamentary majority obedient to its will is absolute and omnipotent . Because it is not subject to the paramount law of a written constitution , it can make or unmake any law as it chooses . It can legislate arbitrarily to deprive groups of citizens of their basic rights or freedoms , to enlarge its own powers at the expense of local government , to weaken the ability of the media to inform the public , or to sap judicial independence .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

<  Independent: Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>The revolution the countryside needs : Christian Wolmar says Britain is lagging behind in setting up   telecottages   By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR THE information technology revolution has left large swaths of rural Britain untouched . The only computers in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games . Ashley Dobbs , an engaging young entrepreneur , is setting out to change that by creating a nationwide network of   telecottages   . This clever name , with its neat evocation of new and old , describes a concept which was developed in Sweden and is spreading to rural areas across the world . In Mr Dobbs 's words , a telecottage is   a room in a village filled with computer communications that can be used by local people to learn and work   . The equipment consists of , perhaps , four word processors , a modem , a laser printer able to produce artwork-quality output , a fax and a photocopier . Software programmes for desk-top publishing , word processing , accounting and business planning are also essential . Mr Dobbs , who is chairman of Telecottages UK , warns possible users not to get bogged down with the technology :   The equipment is a tool to overcome what needs to be done . People must n't think that because there 's a computer , they 've got to think of a use for it .   He reckons there are no shortages of possible uses - farmers can use it to do their accounts , women with child-care responsibilities can work in their own time on the word processors , publicity material for local craftsmen can be produced and so on .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Motoring : A lead-free lover 's guide to used cars : Drivers with a tight budget and an environmental conscience can buy second-hand without losing principles , says James Ruppert By JAMES RUPPERT FROM this month , all new cars submitted for British type approval , the test which allows them to be legally sold in the UK , must be able to run on lead-free petrol . As a result of this rule , and many carefully orchestrated publicity campaigns , the motor industry 's image has now changed from polluter to pal of the earth . If you can afford an environmentally friendly G-registered runabout , then the flora , fauna and children of the British Isles will have a lot to thank you for . But if you have a tight budget and a conscience , running older cars on lead-free fuel becomes a much more complicated issue . Without the presence of a lead compound , an engine 's valve seats go unprotected . This leads to premature wear and plumes of blue smoke spewing from the exhaust . The only effective remedy is to install hardened valve seats or a replacement cylinder head , both expensive options . Less costly , but not entirely satisfactory , is the practice of making every fourth tankful leaded petrol , which protects the valve seats but rather defeats the object . Alternatively there are several chemical additives on the market which aim to provide a substitute for lead , although the case for these products has yet to be proved . However , many cars built within the last few years have hardened valve seats , or alloy cylinder heads that need little ( simply a retune ) or no modification to use unleaded petrol .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

