<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  arts>Architecture : Invisible buildings that reflect nothing : The subtopian , A-road design of many of our cities is destroying their character , Jonathan Glancey believes . Most critics ignore the dreariness of our streets , but it is time for the public to demand better By JONATHAN GLANCEY THIS is the architecture that dare not speak its name . It professes no particular architectural creed ; it belongs to no recognisable school of design . Tags such as Modern , Post-Modern , High-Tech or even Neo-Classical are wholly redundant when you stare at this subtopian , A-road architecture . The specialist architectural press ignores this amorphous school of design , while even the Prince of Wales has nothing to say on the subject , reserving his spleen for imaginative buildings that he and so many of his future subjects profess to hate . The current architectural debate has served to polarise popular opinion on modern architecture . Richard Rogers and the bravura City of London headquarters he designed for Lloyds are presented as unmitigated villains . The burgeoning Neo-Classical architects , such as John Simpson and Quinlan Terry , are , by nature of the style they choose to work in , a good thing . Modern British architects worth their salt , or future knighthoods , can be counted on a few colour spreads of the Prince of Wales 's bestselling book A Vision of Britain . But a national debate on architecture at this level is as banal as it is unhelpful .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Food pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Food : The test of a true boar : British gourmets could soon go the whole hog , writes Henrietta Green By HENRIETTA GREEN WILD BOAR once roamed the fields and forests of Britain . They were the sport of rich noblemen who hunted and ate them with terrific enthusiasm - until there were none . Now there are plans afoot to reintroduce them to Britain on a grand scale for the   gourmet   market . Not as wild boar running free and doing untold damage to the countryside , as in Italy , France and Germany ; but as farmed wild boar which should ease your mind , even if it causes the farmers untold headaches . Thus it was , last Friday , that the inaugural meeting of the British Wild Boar Association took place . It was held , appropriately , on the first day of Michaelmas when , in medieval times , pigs were traditionally turned out into the woods to fatten up on acorns . It got off to a hairy start with several heated discussions about what a wild boar is . Does   wild   mean how it is kept ? Can it be farmed intensively or should it only be reared extensively ? Does the name cover only pure-bred wild boars or can it include a cross , bred with a domestic pig ? If crosses are to be allowed , what percentage of cross is acceptable ? And just because it looks like a wild boar with the striped marking or   agouti   ( long snout , straight tail and small pointy ears ) , can it be accepted as such without a genetic test ? Pretty technical stuff this , with enough contentious issues to make every boar farmer 's hair curl . As Robert Spencer Bernard , barrister and part-time farmer of wild boar for several years on his Buckinghamshire estate , said :   A tiger is a tiger whether you see it in the London Zoo or in the Indian forests , but with a wild boar the argument is n't so simple .   We had been herded together to discuss this and other issues by Dr Derek Booth , animal geneticist and scientist .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  leisure>INTERVIEW Consuming passions : Alan Howard talks to Sheila Johnston about his role in Greenaway 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover By SHEILA JOHNSTON It is not every day that an actor gets eaten in a movie . In Peter Greena way 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover , Alan Howard , as the lover , passes through a restaurant , a kitchen , a cold store and a lorry full of putrifying flesh ; eventually ( the cuckolded Thief , played by Michael Gambon , having visited a terrible revenge ) , his naked corpse is served up , finely glazed and garnished , as an unannounced extra item on the menu . It is a meaty role .   They made a cast of my body , in sections , the torso , then the legs , then the head . It 's very weird to see yourself ; looking in the mirror is not the same thing as seeing yourself three-dimensionally , which is very , very peculiar ,   says Howard , who politely declined the chance to take his effigy home at the end of filming . By some accounts , both his and Gambon 's agent found the script pornographic , and audiences at early screenings were repulsed by the brutality ( although the film opens today to piquant reviews ) .   I was profoundly unnerved when I read the screenplay ; quite shaking with fear and disturbance . I suppose , though , that if Titus Andronicus came through the letter-box as a new script , you would be a bit shocked . But the violence , to me , is not arbitrary ; it 's a manifestation of the Thief as a power for evil . What he does with the power is bound to be upsetting .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

