<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  The Guardian: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letters . By PETER STANFORD is right in maintaining ( Weekend Guardian , November 4 ) that Graham Greene is not alone in calling himself a   Catholic agnostic   . An earlier thinker who declined to see any mutual contradiction between similar terms was Leslie Weatherhead , psychologist and cleric , who published his Creed of a Christian Agnostic . Weatherhead was honest enough to realise that there are many aspects of religion about which one has to remain uncertain , that is , agnostic . These   difficult   areas will vary from one individual to another . As a self-confessed Christian agnostic he himself , however , was sure of a number of the major tenets of Christianity . His   creed   claimed ( in part ) :   I believe that God exists … I believe there is mind behind the universe … Such a mind must be love rather than hate … I believe in the divinity of Christ … I believe that sin is a grisly fact in the world … I believe that God 's forgiveness is one of the most blessed and therapeutic experiences and that it is offered to all who seek it … I believe that our relationship with God is the most important thing in the world … I believe that each individual is precious to God .   Within this creed appear supportive rational arguments but also agnostic admissions , such as   I can understand little about that mind   and   I do not know what   divine   means   . I imagine that many honest people would sympathise with Weatherhead and happily echo his final paragraph :   All this gives me as much as I need , and seems to me the essential credo of Christianity . About the rest I am content to be agnostic .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Independent: Gardening pages. Auto domain:  leisure>In the Garden Update : Prize fruit and veg From MARC CHAMPION in Washington PRIZES will be awarded for the best carnations and bonsai at the Royal Horticultural Society 's show in Greycoat Street , London SW1 , to be held this Tuesday ( 11am-7pm , admission ?2.50 ) and Wednesday ( 10am-5pm , admission ?1.50 ) . There will also be displays of autumn fruit and vegetables . In the Garden Update : Growing classes Weekend Garden Page 43 In the Garden Update : Weekend work From MARC CHAMPION in Washington SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now . The summer 's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows , clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover . Keep away from jasmine , already thick in flower bud , and clematis , however untidy . Buddleias , although messy , should not be cut back until spring . Dead , ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed , cutting where the stem joins the main branch . Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Talk of the Trade : Surreal memories By GERALDINE NORMAN JOHN Armstrong 's paintings ,   built up of remembered things which in my case have been miscalled surrealist   , have a poetic appeal which often beats Dali , Magritte et al at their own game . A group of 38 of his paintings are on show at Ewan Mundy and Celia Philo 's Gallery ( top floor , 29 New Bond Street , W1 ) until 28 October , some on loan from his family and some for sale - mostly from ?8,000 to ?12,000 , but dipping as low as ?3,000 and running as high as ?40,000 . The catalogue has an introduction by his widow , Annette , through which one glimpses the man and the mind behind the images . Armstrong was born in 1893 and had a classical education at Oxford before reaching art school just before the outbreak of the First World War . He died in 1973 . Armstrong fought in the First World War and was a war artist in the Second , sharing with other Surrealists the challenge of creating a pattern out of devastation . He held fast to beauty of form and colour and added a spice of wit - as pleasingly revealed in Bond Street by his Perspiring Venus . Talk of the Trade : Chinese treasures By GERALDINE NORMAN SINCE artworks began to flood out of China in the early 1980s - mostly smuggled by sea to Macao or Hong Kong - extraordinary rarities , hitherto unknown in the West , have begun to turn up on the market . Bluett 's ( 48 Davies Street , London W1 ) has got its hands on a group of three bronze vessels from the Warring States period ( third century BC ) . There is only one other known example of their size and elegance in the West - in the Freer Gallery in Washington .

