<  Independent: Health pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Health : Lively young woman seeks normal life : Elaine Heath , who is severely paralysed , tells Cherrill Hicks of the daily constraints she faces By CHERRILL HICKS ELAINE HEATH likes pink eye glitter and a vodka and orange before lunch . She reads Lenin , Lawrence and supports CND . Elaine is also severely disabled by cerebral palsy : she can use neither her arms nor legs , and she can only communicate by making noises , or by operating an electric typewriter with her nose . In spite of her disability , Elaine has in the past led a remarkably active and normal life . She has been through a marriage , a divorce , and a serious love affair ; learnt Russian , written regularly for a local paper and taught a young child disabled by a stroke to read again . But Elaine no longer has a close relationship to give her the support she needs . Without it , she has become a virtual prisoner in her own home ; she is ruled by the clock and the hours worked by her local authority helpers . Unable to go away for weekends or holidays , she never goes out at night to dinner parties , discos or evening classes . Her life has become intolerable , she says , ever since she became a social services   project   . In the mornings Elaine can not get up before 9am - which is when her care assistant starts work .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts >DAY OUT Fields of human conflict : David Keys on permanent reminders of the Second World War … By DAVID KEYS The 50th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War has largely been an armchair affair , commemorated in newspapers and magazines , on the radio and television . However , outside your sitting room thousands of wartime military installations still survive as historically important reminders of Britain 's epic struggle . Fighter and Bomber Command airfields , anti tank defences , gun emplacements , prisoner of war camps - and some 6,000 pillboxes still form part of the landscape in many areas of the country . In the heart of London 's Whitehall visitors can explore the warren of cramped underground rooms and passageways which served as the nerve centre of Britain 's war effort . Known as the Cabinet War Rooms , the complex has only been open to the public since 1983 . Inside , one can still see the Map Room , where Churchill used to study the progress of the war , the Cabinet Room where many of the Second World War 's most important decisions were made , and Churchill 's personal accommodation from which he made several of his wartime broadcasts . In the space of 12 months the War Office built 25,000 pillboxes - almost a quarter of which still survive - and erected hundreds of miles of concrete anti-tank defences . On windswept lonely Chesil Beach - that great ten mile long pile of pebbles which stretches westwards along the Dorset coast from Portland - one can still explore the pillboxes and anti-tank defences which were built in 1940 to resist the threat of invasion . And later in the war , in 1943 , it was this imposing natural wall of shingle which was used by the famous Dambusters as a practice target before their attack on the Mohne and Eder dams in Germany . Fifty miles inland , the remains of the wartime government 's fall-back line of defence still survives , mostly along the line of the Kennett-Avon canal .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Talk of the Trade : Antiques record By ANN ROBERTS THE first antiques   freesheet   is claiming to have topped the circulation of every other antiques magazine just four months ( and one issue ) after its launch . The World of Antiques is produced quarterly from a cottage in Somerset by Duncan and Jacki Phillips and distributed to everyone who visits antiques fairs around the country - estimated at 50,000 people every three months . The top-selling magazines have a circulation of around 14,000 . Talk of the Trade : Technical hitch By ANN ROBERTS THERE are grumblings among BBC Television technical staff , whose objections to cramped studio conditions caused a two-week delay in the launch of the new Breakfast News . When it was eventually launched last week , critics - including our own Mark Lawson - noticed a number of technical blips . The next day a high-tech caption machine broke down .   Talk of the Trade : Disputed Record By ANN ROBERTS RUPERT MURDOCH 's News International is furious that the Audit Bureau of Circulations has allowed Robert Maxwell 's Daily Mirror to include the sales of its Scottish sister paper the Daily Record in calculating its circulation figures . Together , the Mirror and Record sales amount to 3,900,000 - only 200,000 below The Sun . The Mirror sells 3,200,000 on it own . NI insists that the Mirror and the Record are separate newspapers with different editors and very little common content , even selling at different cover prices .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

