<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Talk of the Trade : Antiques record By ANN ROBERTS THE first antiques   freesheet   is claiming to have topped the circulation of every other antiques magazine just four months ( and one issue ) after its launch . The World of Antiques is produced quarterly from a cottage in Somerset by Duncan and Jacki Phillips and distributed to everyone who visits antiques fairs around the country - estimated at 50,000 people every three months . The top-selling magazines have a circulation of around 14,000 . Talk of the Trade : Technical hitch By ANN ROBERTS THERE are grumblings among BBC Television technical staff , whose objections to cramped studio conditions caused a two-week delay in the launch of the new Breakfast News . When it was eventually launched last week , critics - including our own Mark Lawson - noticed a number of technical blips . The next day a high-tech caption machine broke down .   Talk of the Trade : Disputed Record By ANN ROBERTS RUPERT MURDOCH 's News International is furious that the Audit Bureau of Circulations has allowed Robert Maxwell 's Daily Mirror to include the sales of its Scottish sister paper the Daily Record in calculating its circulation figures . Together , the Mirror and Record sales amount to 3,900,000 - only 200,000 below The Sun . The Mirror sells 3,200,000 on it own . NI insists that the Mirror and the Record are separate newspapers with different editors and very little common content , even selling at different cover prices .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

<  The Guardian: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook . By Edited by Alex Brummer CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System . But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community , the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim , who have been meeting in Australia , might not have bothered . The first , albeit tenative , steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe : movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips . Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks : the EC based around the West German economy ; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area , and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre . But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State , Mr James Baker , are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum . It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community : a suggestion rudely rebuffed . The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US , Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande . Now it is making a third bid for influence . It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  social science>PCBs explained From Dame MARY DONALDSON , GBE PCBs - polychlorinated biphenyls - are very inert organic substances , which were prized because they were flexible ( being liquids ) but had very high insulating properties for electricity . They were also used in hydraulic systems because they did not react with the materials used in the pipes and pistons . They do not occur naturally , but were produced commercially for 50 years , beginning in 1929 . They are extremely hard to dispose of . Incineration , which claims a 99.999 per cent destruction rate , is the only known way of eliminating them . But PCBs are a disappearing problem . In the late Seventies many countries , including the UK ( in 1978 ) , banned their manufacture . Remaining stocks ( in electrical equipment , mostly ) are being burned , but traces will remain for many years . PCBs are now ubiquitous at very low levels in the environment , in both town and country .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  Independent: Book reviews. Auto domain:  arts>Bookshop Window By MISHA DONAT IF THIS WAS HAPPINESS by Barbara Leaming , Weidenfeld & Nicolson ?14.95 Barbara Leaming wrote a biography of Orson Welles almost as fat as its subject . This is a suitably slimmer volume on one of his wives , Rita Hayworth . She was a professional dancer at 12 ; her father partnered her on stage and , according to this book , did far worse to her off it . Screen-tested four years later , she did something nasty to her hairline in the interests of personal sultriness , and was soon starring with Fred Astaire in You 'll Never Get Rich and You Were Never Lovelier . She proved both wrong , getting richer and lovelier by the hour . This led her into masterpieces like Gilda and The Lady from Shanghai , plus a fistful of failed marriages . Ms Leaming tells it all with vim , though the gossip turns her on far more than the movies :   Aly practised an Eastern art of love known as Imsak , which allowed him to exercise indefinite control …   With a bit more Imsak , this could have been a great book . POETS AT WORK , ed . George Plimpton , Penguin ?6.

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>Pyrgic Puzzles . By Christopher Maslanka 1 . Kugelbaum came across a football lying on the pavement .   Clearly ,   he said to himself ,   Each T on this ball is regular and of the same dimensions as each and every other T. Clearly also , each and every pentagon is regular and the same size as each and every other pentagon .   How many T's are there on the surface of the ball ? ILLUSTRATION : IAN ANDERSON 2 . What regular body would be obtained if the centres of all neighbouring pentagons were joined by straight lines and all other lines were erased ? 3 . The word cuboid has six letters and represents a solid figure with six plane faces . Can you think of another solid figure with the same number of plane faces as letters in its name ? 4 .   I can not think ,   remarked Russell ,   Why laziness should have had such a bad press .

