<  Independent: Gardening pages. Auto domain:  leisure>In the Garden Update : Prize fruit and veg From MARC CHAMPION in Washington PRIZES will be awarded for the best carnations and bonsai at the Royal Horticultural Society 's show in Greycoat Street , London SW1 , to be held this Tuesday ( 11am-7pm , admission ?2.50 ) and Wednesday ( 10am-5pm , admission ?1.50 ) . There will also be displays of autumn fruit and vegetables . In the Garden Update : Growing classes Weekend Garden Page 43 In the Garden Update : Weekend work From MARC CHAMPION in Washington SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now . The summer 's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows , clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover . Keep away from jasmine , already thick in flower bud , and clematis , however untidy . Buddleias , although messy , should not be cut back until spring . Dead , ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed , cutting where the stem joins the main branch . Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  belief and thought>BOOK REVIEW Thatcher 's early days on the seat of power :   Margaret , Daughter of Beatrice   - Leo Abse : Jonathan Cape , 12.95 pounds By AUBERON WAUGH IN A LONG apologia for having had the temerity to undertake a psycho-biography of Mrs Thatcher , Leo Abse denies that his book is a personal attack on her , but agrees that it may have some admonitory function in warning people not to acquiesce too readily in the disposition of someone who would appear , on his argument , to be gravely unbalanced . His justification for the necessary invasion of privacy is the familiar - and thoroughly respectable - plea that politics should and must be personalised . Politics has very little to do with issues ; it is all to do with the personal vanities and ambitions of politicians . Or so he says at the beginning of his book . By the end , with an extended sermon on the emptiness of individualist ethics , he is pleading for a return to the benevolence in public affairs which Thatcher can not supply by nature of having been denied her mother 's breast , given the wrong sort of potty training , etc . There are two objections to this sort of psycho-biography . The first lies in the extent to which all evidence adduced depends on guesswork . Abse has not put Thatcher on the analyst 's couch , and does not pretend to have done so . Everything is taken from previously published material .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

