<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Aircrew 's rocket-propelled exit from plunging plane By Robert Bedlow WHEN THE pilot of the stricken US fighter plane pulled the handle to eject from his EF-111 on Thursday , he was acknowledging the inevitable ; there was nothing more he could do to save his ?10 million   Raven   from crashing , only save the life of his navigator and himself .   There is no set procedure ,   said Mr David Learmount , a former RAF pilot and now features editor of Flight International .   You use the ejector when there is no alternative ; when you reckon there is no way of controlling your aircraft and you know you are going to crash .   Crashing pilots always tried to ensure that their aircraft was not going to hit any people or buildings ,   but quite often they leave it too late and die .   He said that if the reports by eye witnesses were correct - and normally they are unreliable - the jet was out of control . In most military aircraft , the crew would have been   banged out   . The procedure would have been for the pilot to pull a handle , situated between his legs , which jettisoned the canopy while activating a rocket that fired his seat and that of his navigator clear of the plane . The EF-111 uses a General Dynamics ejector system that blows the entire cockpit away from the airframe . The cockpit is then propelled by a large rocket and almost immediately stabilised by a small drogue , or parachute , which then pulls out the main chute , said Mr Brian Miller , of Martin Baker , the leading name in ejection seat invention and manufacture .   As it opens it triggers air inflation bags underneath the cockpit capsule to soften the landing and reduces landing shock to the crew .

<  The Guardian: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook . By Edited by Alex Brummer CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System . But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community , the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim , who have been meeting in Australia , might not have bothered . The first , albeit tenative , steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe : movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips . Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks : the EC based around the West German economy ; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area , and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre . But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State , Mr James Baker , are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum . It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community : a suggestion rudely rebuffed . The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US , Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande . Now it is making a third bid for influence . It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

