<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  The Guardian: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook . By Edited by Alex Brummer CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System . But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community , the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim , who have been meeting in Australia , might not have bothered . The first , albeit tenative , steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe : movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips . Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks : the EC based around the West German economy ; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area , and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre . But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State , Mr James Baker , are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum . It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community : a suggestion rudely rebuffed . The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US , Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande . Now it is making a third bid for influence . It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<   The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Times change but the victims do n't Television . By Hugh Hebert WITH the continent the way it is , the end of Made in Latin America ( BBC-2 ) was inevitable . It was the shooting dead in August of Colombia 's poll-topping Liberal presidential candidate , Senator Luis Carlos Galan . He arrived at the crowded town square near Bogota and was born shoulder high to climb up onto the back of a truck to make his campaign speech . The shots sounded like no more than a bad cough . True , there was the other mass gathering-a packed hall in Medellin , Drug City , listening as poets challenged the deadly fluence of the Mafia through writing that has the characteristics of war work : defiant , angry , and sad . But what you carry away in the back of your eye is the image of two very still figures , in foetal folds , on the platform of that truck as everyone else dived for cover . Mike Dibb 's series has been sometimes confusing , lacking in structure . But it has made us aware of the crusted , jewel-bright variety of Latin America behind things that more often lump its nations together . Drugs , debt , dictators , destitution , maracas , machismo , priests , peasants , tangos … The Venezuelan poet Juan Liscano sits by the sea and tells us that Europeans   tend to classify us as exotic birds-parrots , or toucans …   But the truest expression of Latin America , he says , is its culture .

<  Independent: Food pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Food : The test of a true boar : British gourmets could soon go the whole hog , writes Henrietta Green By HENRIETTA GREEN WILD BOAR once roamed the fields and forests of Britain . They were the sport of rich noblemen who hunted and ate them with terrific enthusiasm - until there were none . Now there are plans afoot to reintroduce them to Britain on a grand scale for the   gourmet   market . Not as wild boar running free and doing untold damage to the countryside , as in Italy , France and Germany ; but as farmed wild boar which should ease your mind , even if it causes the farmers untold headaches . Thus it was , last Friday , that the inaugural meeting of the British Wild Boar Association took place . It was held , appropriately , on the first day of Michaelmas when , in medieval times , pigs were traditionally turned out into the woods to fatten up on acorns . It got off to a hairy start with several heated discussions about what a wild boar is . Does   wild   mean how it is kept ? Can it be farmed intensively or should it only be reared extensively ? Does the name cover only pure-bred wild boars or can it include a cross , bred with a domestic pig ? If crosses are to be allowed , what percentage of cross is acceptable ? And just because it looks like a wild boar with the striped marking or   agouti   ( long snout , straight tail and small pointy ears ) , can it be accepted as such without a genetic test ? Pretty technical stuff this , with enough contentious issues to make every boar farmer 's hair curl . As Robert Spencer Bernard , barrister and part-time farmer of wild boar for several years on his Buckinghamshire estate , said :   A tiger is a tiger whether you see it in the London Zoo or in the Indian forests , but with a wild boar the argument is n't so simple .   We had been herded together to discuss this and other issues by Dr Derek Booth , animal geneticist and scientist .

