<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Travel section. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Cautionary tale for enterprising readers By PETER DUNN PERHAPS the Independent Traveller ought to carry some sort of warning :   Reading this section can change your life .   It certainly did for Simon Turner , who read a feature on these pages a year ago written by Godfrey Hodgson on his travels around the Michelin   Red Rocker   hotels in the region around Toulouse in south-west France . Mr Turner was a chartered surveyor who worked for Hamptons estate agents , but had realised that he   patently was n't suited to selling houses   . He confesses that at the age of 40 he had reached   the proverbial midlife crisis   and was searching for a different way of life .   I had holidayed several times in France and was toying with the idea of buying a house there , but with no definite plan in mind . I had already received details of properties in several regions of France , including the Toulouse area , when I providentially read your article ,   At the sign of the Red Rocker   , the catalyst being the mention of a cheap flight to Toulouse from Heathrow for ?116 return .   He immediately booked a flight to Toulouse , saw a house 35 miles north-west of Toulouse in a small hamlet and realised it was ideal as a home as well as an auberge .   I discussed the matter with my wife and signed a contract straight away - without my wife seeing the house . I then left Hamptons and spent two months at the Berlitz School of Language in London .   Mr Turner his wife and three daughters aged eight , six and four moved to France in April and his auberge opened in July .

<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  social science>Obituary : Francis Goodman By TERENCE PEPPER FRANCIS GOODMAN was one of the many bright talents that flourished in the art of taking fashion and portrait photographs in London in the 1930s .   Franzi   was born in London in 1913 , but was brought up from 1919 onwards in Munich , where he first experimented with photography . The German-Jewish family moved back to London in 1931 , where the 18-year-old Goodman took his first job as an apprentice to the leading commercial photographer of the day , Shaw Wildman . Wildman pioneered advertising and fashion photography in Britain , specifically outdoor location work , as well as creating natural indoor lighting . Darkroom work for Cecil Beaton ( whom he also regularly photographed ) and for Peter Rose Pulham ( whose studio he took over in Berkeley Square when the latter went to Paris to become a painter ) provided Goodman with the visual stimulus that helped create his most imaginative work . By the mid-1930s his work was regularly appearing in all the society magazines as well as in Harper 's Bazaar ( then under the creative art editorship of AY McPeake ) , in the company of his avant-garde contemporaries such as Rose Pulham , Winifred Casson and Barbara Ker-Seymer and other innovators of the time . Goodman 's Thirties portraits taken in the studio often relied on specially-painted backdrops , such as John Banting produced for his work with Ker-Seymer , or echoed the classic compositional motifs pioneered by Hoyningen Huene and adapted by Wildman . Unfortunately , most of his work from this period - with the exception of two portraits of Anna May Wong and Gertrude Lawrence - was lost in the Second World War , and is only traceable in the prestigious pages of The Studio 's Photography Year Book of 1935 . Known as FJ Gutmann in the 1930s , he anglicised his name to Goodman for the war years , serving in the ranks as a soldier before becoming attached to the Royal Air Force 's Photographic Interpretation Unit at Medmenham by the war 's end . He returned to portraiture in 1945 , this time working out of the studio in his sitters ' home environment with three portable floods .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

