<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  leisure>INTERVIEW Consuming passions : Alan Howard talks to Sheila Johnston about his role in Greenaway 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover By SHEILA JOHNSTON It is not every day that an actor gets eaten in a movie . In Peter Greena way 's The Cook , the Thief , his Wife and her Lover , Alan Howard , as the lover , passes through a restaurant , a kitchen , a cold store and a lorry full of putrifying flesh ; eventually ( the cuckolded Thief , played by Michael Gambon , having visited a terrible revenge ) , his naked corpse is served up , finely glazed and garnished , as an unannounced extra item on the menu . It is a meaty role .   They made a cast of my body , in sections , the torso , then the legs , then the head . It 's very weird to see yourself ; looking in the mirror is not the same thing as seeing yourself three-dimensionally , which is very , very peculiar ,   says Howard , who politely declined the chance to take his effigy home at the end of filming . By some accounts , both his and Gambon 's agent found the script pornographic , and audiences at early screenings were repulsed by the brutality ( although the film opens today to piquant reviews ) .   I was profoundly unnerved when I read the screenplay ; quite shaking with fear and disturbance . I suppose , though , that if Titus Andronicus came through the letter-box as a new script , you would be a bit shocked . But the violence , to me , is not arbitrary ; it 's a manifestation of the Thief as a power for evil . What he does with the power is bound to be upsetting .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

<  Independent: Property section. Auto domain:  commerce>Property : Cottage charms By SUE FIELDMAN THE reputed birthplace of Bob Fitzsimmons , world heavyweight boxing champion in 1897 , is one of the 100 or more properties to be auctioned by the Bristol and West between 18-20 October . The house ( right ) at 61 Wendron Street in Helston , Cornwall , has a guide price of ?55,000-?70,000 and a blue plaque in honour of Fitzsimmons . It will be auctioned at the Alverton Manor Hotel , Truro , on 19 October , at 3pm . Ferryman 's Cottage ( left ) , at Noss Mayo in South Devon , is to be auctioned on its own by Strutt & Parker ( 0392 215631 ) on 26 October . The two-bedroom cottage needs refurbishment but it is in a superb location , in the middle of woodland owned by the National Trust and overlooking the River Yealm . The guide price is ?150,000 . Property : Forward Planning : Making Proposals : Influencing the decision-makers : Allison Flight fills in the background to a planning application By ALLISON FLIGHT THE planning system is designed around the idea that people should have a say in what happens to their immediate surroundings . But how do you find out about whether a planning application has been made in the first place ? Whether you are proposing or opposing an application , what is the best way to influence the decision that is eventually made ? Finding out about an application : Under section 28 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 the planning authority - usually the local council - is supposed to advertise certain planning applications in the local newspaper . The proposals covered are development in a conservation area , works to a listed building or which affect the setting of a conservation area or a listed building , and developments in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty . The planning authority also has to advertise locally any proposals involving large buildings ( those more than 20 metres high ) , or any   unneighbourly uses   - such as a casino , scrap yard , cemetery or slaughterhouse - and put up a notice on the site itself .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Talk of the Trade : Surreal memories By GERALDINE NORMAN JOHN Armstrong 's paintings ,   built up of remembered things which in my case have been miscalled surrealist   , have a poetic appeal which often beats Dali , Magritte et al at their own game . A group of 38 of his paintings are on show at Ewan Mundy and Celia Philo 's Gallery ( top floor , 29 New Bond Street , W1 ) until 28 October , some on loan from his family and some for sale - mostly from ?8,000 to ?12,000 , but dipping as low as ?3,000 and running as high as ?40,000 . The catalogue has an introduction by his widow , Annette , through which one glimpses the man and the mind behind the images . Armstrong was born in 1893 and had a classical education at Oxford before reaching art school just before the outbreak of the First World War . He died in 1973 . Armstrong fought in the First World War and was a war artist in the Second , sharing with other Surrealists the challenge of creating a pattern out of devastation . He held fast to beauty of form and colour and added a spice of wit - as pleasingly revealed in Bond Street by his Perspiring Venus . Talk of the Trade : Chinese treasures By GERALDINE NORMAN SINCE artworks began to flood out of China in the early 1980s - mostly smuggled by sea to Macao or Hong Kong - extraordinary rarities , hitherto unknown in the West , have begun to turn up on the market . Bluett 's ( 48 Davies Street , London W1 ) has got its hands on a group of three bronze vessels from the Warring States period ( third century BC ) . There is only one other known example of their size and elegance in the West - in the Freer Gallery in Washington .

<  Independent: Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>The revolution the countryside needs : Christian Wolmar says Britain is lagging behind in setting up   telecottages   By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR THE information technology revolution has left large swaths of rural Britain untouched . The only computers in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games . Ashley Dobbs , an engaging young entrepreneur , is setting out to change that by creating a nationwide network of   telecottages   . This clever name , with its neat evocation of new and old , describes a concept which was developed in Sweden and is spreading to rural areas across the world . In Mr Dobbs 's words , a telecottage is   a room in a village filled with computer communications that can be used by local people to learn and work   . The equipment consists of , perhaps , four word processors , a modem , a laser printer able to produce artwork-quality output , a fax and a photocopier . Software programmes for desk-top publishing , word processing , accounting and business planning are also essential . Mr Dobbs , who is chairman of Telecottages UK , warns possible users not to get bogged down with the technology :   The equipment is a tool to overcome what needs to be done . People must n't think that because there 's a computer , they 've got to think of a use for it .   He reckons there are no shortages of possible uses - farmers can use it to do their accounts , women with child-care responsibilities can work in their own time on the word processors , publicity material for local craftsmen can be produced and so on .

<  Independent: Health pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Health : Lively young woman seeks normal life : Elaine Heath , who is severely paralysed , tells Cherrill Hicks of the daily constraints she faces By CHERRILL HICKS ELAINE HEATH likes pink eye glitter and a vodka and orange before lunch . She reads Lenin , Lawrence and supports CND . Elaine is also severely disabled by cerebral palsy : she can use neither her arms nor legs , and she can only communicate by making noises , or by operating an electric typewriter with her nose . In spite of her disability , Elaine has in the past led a remarkably active and normal life . She has been through a marriage , a divorce , and a serious love affair ; learnt Russian , written regularly for a local paper and taught a young child disabled by a stroke to read again . But Elaine no longer has a close relationship to give her the support she needs . Without it , she has become a virtual prisoner in her own home ; she is ruled by the clock and the hours worked by her local authority helpers . Unable to go away for weekends or holidays , she never goes out at night to dinner parties , discos or evening classes . Her life has become intolerable , she says , ever since she became a social services   project   . In the mornings Elaine can not get up before 9am - which is when her care assistant starts work .

<  The Guardian: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letters . By PETER STANFORD is right in maintaining ( Weekend Guardian , November 4 ) that Graham Greene is not alone in calling himself a   Catholic agnostic   . An earlier thinker who declined to see any mutual contradiction between similar terms was Leslie Weatherhead , psychologist and cleric , who published his Creed of a Christian Agnostic . Weatherhead was honest enough to realise that there are many aspects of religion about which one has to remain uncertain , that is , agnostic . These   difficult   areas will vary from one individual to another . As a self-confessed Christian agnostic he himself , however , was sure of a number of the major tenets of Christianity . His   creed   claimed ( in part ) :   I believe that God exists … I believe there is mind behind the universe … Such a mind must be love rather than hate … I believe in the divinity of Christ … I believe that sin is a grisly fact in the world … I believe that God 's forgiveness is one of the most blessed and therapeutic experiences and that it is offered to all who seek it … I believe that our relationship with God is the most important thing in the world … I believe that each individual is precious to God .   Within this creed appear supportive rational arguments but also agnostic admissions , such as   I can understand little about that mind   and   I do not know what   divine   means   . I imagine that many honest people would sympathise with Weatherhead and happily echo his final paragraph :   All this gives me as much as I need , and seems to me the essential credo of Christianity . About the rest I am content to be agnostic .

