<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Law section. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Why we must tame the state Leviathan : Greater use of judicial review would help people fight bad decisions by public bodies , Anthony Lester says By ANTHONY LESTER WHEN I began practice at the Bar 25 years ago , phrases such as   judicial review of administrative action   ,   public law   , or   fundamental human rights and freedoms   sounded strange to English judges and lawyers . They described apparently alien , un-English ideas , taken from Continental or United States systems . Successive generations of politicians , civil servants , judges and philosophers reared on a meagre intellectual diet of pragmatic utilitarianism and positivism had firmly rejected these ideas as a basis for ensuring constitutional government and citizens ' rights . For them , written constitutions , Bills of Rights , and a special system of administrative law regulating relations between government and the governed were exotic , inedible fruits of the American and French Revolutions . According to the conventional British wisdom of the middle of the century , our flexible unwritten constitution , our democratic Parliament , the sense of fair play of our permanent civil service , and our vigorous and vigilant free Press were safer and more effective guarantees of personal freedom than a Continental or American-style   government of judges   . A quarter of a century later , the conventional wisdom of British mandarins looks complacent , self-serving , ill-informed , and outmoded - especially in the light of the many serious breaches by the United Kingdom of the European Convention on Human Rights . The powers of British central government are greater than those enjoyed by any other democratic country of comparable size . Between elections , a government with a sufficient parliamentary majority obedient to its will is absolute and omnipotent . Because it is not subject to the paramount law of a written constitution , it can make or unmake any law as it chooses . It can legislate arbitrarily to deprive groups of citizens of their basic rights or freedoms , to enlarge its own powers at the expense of local government , to weaken the ability of the media to inform the public , or to sap judicial independence .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  social science>Obituary : Francis Goodman By TERENCE PEPPER FRANCIS GOODMAN was one of the many bright talents that flourished in the art of taking fashion and portrait photographs in London in the 1930s .   Franzi   was born in London in 1913 , but was brought up from 1919 onwards in Munich , where he first experimented with photography . The German-Jewish family moved back to London in 1931 , where the 18-year-old Goodman took his first job as an apprentice to the leading commercial photographer of the day , Shaw Wildman . Wildman pioneered advertising and fashion photography in Britain , specifically outdoor location work , as well as creating natural indoor lighting . Darkroom work for Cecil Beaton ( whom he also regularly photographed ) and for Peter Rose Pulham ( whose studio he took over in Berkeley Square when the latter went to Paris to become a painter ) provided Goodman with the visual stimulus that helped create his most imaginative work . By the mid-1930s his work was regularly appearing in all the society magazines as well as in Harper 's Bazaar ( then under the creative art editorship of AY McPeake ) , in the company of his avant-garde contemporaries such as Rose Pulham , Winifred Casson and Barbara Ker-Seymer and other innovators of the time . Goodman 's Thirties portraits taken in the studio often relied on specially-painted backdrops , such as John Banting produced for his work with Ker-Seymer , or echoed the classic compositional motifs pioneered by Hoyningen Huene and adapted by Wildman . Unfortunately , most of his work from this period - with the exception of two portraits of Anna May Wong and Gertrude Lawrence - was lost in the Second World War , and is only traceable in the prestigious pages of The Studio 's Photography Year Book of 1935 . Known as FJ Gutmann in the 1930s , he anglicised his name to Goodman for the war years , serving in the ranks as a soldier before becoming attached to the Royal Air Force 's Photographic Interpretation Unit at Medmenham by the war 's end . He returned to portraiture in 1945 , this time working out of the studio in his sitters ' home environment with three portable floods .

