<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  arts>Architecture : Invisible buildings that reflect nothing : The subtopian , A-road design of many of our cities is destroying their character , Jonathan Glancey believes . Most critics ignore the dreariness of our streets , but it is time for the public to demand better By JONATHAN GLANCEY THIS is the architecture that dare not speak its name . It professes no particular architectural creed ; it belongs to no recognisable school of design . Tags such as Modern , Post-Modern , High-Tech or even Neo-Classical are wholly redundant when you stare at this subtopian , A-road architecture . The specialist architectural press ignores this amorphous school of design , while even the Prince of Wales has nothing to say on the subject , reserving his spleen for imaginative buildings that he and so many of his future subjects profess to hate . The current architectural debate has served to polarise popular opinion on modern architecture . Richard Rogers and the bravura City of London headquarters he designed for Lloyds are presented as unmitigated villains . The burgeoning Neo-Classical architects , such as John Simpson and Quinlan Terry , are , by nature of the style they choose to work in , a good thing . Modern British architects worth their salt , or future knighthoods , can be counted on a few colour spreads of the Prince of Wales 's bestselling book A Vision of Britain . But a national debate on architecture at this level is as banal as it is unhelpful .

<  Independent: Food pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Food : The test of a true boar : British gourmets could soon go the whole hog , writes Henrietta Green By HENRIETTA GREEN WILD BOAR once roamed the fields and forests of Britain . They were the sport of rich noblemen who hunted and ate them with terrific enthusiasm - until there were none . Now there are plans afoot to reintroduce them to Britain on a grand scale for the   gourmet   market . Not as wild boar running free and doing untold damage to the countryside , as in Italy , France and Germany ; but as farmed wild boar which should ease your mind , even if it causes the farmers untold headaches . Thus it was , last Friday , that the inaugural meeting of the British Wild Boar Association took place . It was held , appropriately , on the first day of Michaelmas when , in medieval times , pigs were traditionally turned out into the woods to fatten up on acorns . It got off to a hairy start with several heated discussions about what a wild boar is . Does   wild   mean how it is kept ? Can it be farmed intensively or should it only be reared extensively ? Does the name cover only pure-bred wild boars or can it include a cross , bred with a domestic pig ? If crosses are to be allowed , what percentage of cross is acceptable ? And just because it looks like a wild boar with the striped marking or   agouti   ( long snout , straight tail and small pointy ears ) , can it be accepted as such without a genetic test ? Pretty technical stuff this , with enough contentious issues to make every boar farmer 's hair curl . As Robert Spencer Bernard , barrister and part-time farmer of wild boar for several years on his Buckinghamshire estate , said :   A tiger is a tiger whether you see it in the London Zoo or in the Indian forests , but with a wild boar the argument is n't so simple .   We had been herded together to discuss this and other issues by Dr Derek Booth , animal geneticist and scientist .

<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  Independent: Travel pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Palin the globe-trotter By FRANK BARRETT ON THE fae of things , Michael Palin seems an unlikely double for the archetypal stiff upperlipped phlegmatic Englsihman Phileas Fogg , hero of Jules Verne 's Around the World in Eighty Days . Palin , ex-Python star - most recently appearing as Ken in A Fish Called Wanda - was invited by BBC 2 to tread in Fogg 's footsteps by recreating the fictional journey . ( Alan Whicker , it seems , was first choice : Palin makes an interesting substitute given the wicked Python parody of Whicker Island : a place full of Alan Whickers endlessly interviewing each other . ) It 's hard to imagine Mr Fogg , for example , ever having been a train-spotter : if there was any train-spotting to be done , Mr Fogg would have despatched his loyal French manservant Passepartout to do it on his behalf . Yet young Palin , who grew up in Sheffield , was an enthusiastic train spotter , neatly underlining each newly spotted locomotive in his Ian Allan book .   I did n't cross them out - that would have been too much like defacing the book ,   he says . And while he has travelled a lot since the success of Monty Python , as a child his family holidays were spent in the unadventurous climes of Southwold and East Anglia ( recalled in his TV play East of Ipswich ) . He travelled far , however , in his imagination .   I 'd been everywhere in books : I read a lot about exotic places . And I went to church every Sunday where we used to have missionaries who would come and tell tales about how they built churches in jungle clearings with lions gnawing at their legs .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Daily Telegraph: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Letter to the Editor : Original dish SIR - In 1813 Sir Thomas Bernard published a pamphlet , An Account of a Supply of Fish for the Manufacturing Poor , which proposed to ameliorate the poverty among working people in London by increasing the supply of fish . A Fish Association was duly set up under the chairmanship of the Duke of Kent . In one report the association described the success of the fish industry in Penzance , mentioning that the shortage of corn lead to its replacement by increased potato planting . So there you have it : fish and chips were a West Country invention . BILL WEST Exeter , Devon Leading Article : Horses for courses FOR THE thoughtful punter , with cash in hand , at least two openings present themselves this morning - the Grand National and next week 's General Election . Weighing his chances , the punter will naturally examine respective odds . There is nothing at Aintree much shorter than 6 to 1 , whereas the two main parties in the General Election are offered on narrower terms . There are also minor differences of which to take account . A gambler , taking a sudden fancy to Mr Kinnock and planting ?25,000 on Labour - not a course we recommend - will be felt instantly in this modest market , and shift the odds overnight . He would make less stir in the larger Aintree pool .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts >DAY OUT Fields of human conflict : David Keys on permanent reminders of the Second World War … By DAVID KEYS The 50th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War has largely been an armchair affair , commemorated in newspapers and magazines , on the radio and television . However , outside your sitting room thousands of wartime military installations still survive as historically important reminders of Britain 's epic struggle . Fighter and Bomber Command airfields , anti tank defences , gun emplacements , prisoner of war camps - and some 6,000 pillboxes still form part of the landscape in many areas of the country . In the heart of London 's Whitehall visitors can explore the warren of cramped underground rooms and passageways which served as the nerve centre of Britain 's war effort . Known as the Cabinet War Rooms , the complex has only been open to the public since 1983 . Inside , one can still see the Map Room , where Churchill used to study the progress of the war , the Cabinet Room where many of the Second World War 's most important decisions were made , and Churchill 's personal accommodation from which he made several of his wartime broadcasts . In the space of 12 months the War Office built 25,000 pillboxes - almost a quarter of which still survive - and erected hundreds of miles of concrete anti-tank defences . On windswept lonely Chesil Beach - that great ten mile long pile of pebbles which stretches westwards along the Dorset coast from Portland - one can still explore the pillboxes and anti-tank defences which were built in 1940 to resist the threat of invasion . And later in the war , in 1943 , it was this imposing natural wall of shingle which was used by the famous Dambusters as a practice target before their attack on the Mohne and Eder dams in Germany . Fifty miles inland , the remains of the wartime government 's fall-back line of defence still survives , mostly along the line of the Kennett-Avon canal .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

