<   The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Times change but the victims do n't Television . By Hugh Hebert WITH the continent the way it is , the end of Made in Latin America ( BBC-2 ) was inevitable . It was the shooting dead in August of Colombia 's poll-topping Liberal presidential candidate , Senator Luis Carlos Galan . He arrived at the crowded town square near Bogota and was born shoulder high to climb up onto the back of a truck to make his campaign speech . The shots sounded like no more than a bad cough . True , there was the other mass gathering-a packed hall in Medellin , Drug City , listening as poets challenged the deadly fluence of the Mafia through writing that has the characteristics of war work : defiant , angry , and sad . But what you carry away in the back of your eye is the image of two very still figures , in foetal folds , on the platform of that truck as everyone else dived for cover . Mike Dibb 's series has been sometimes confusing , lacking in structure . But it has made us aware of the crusted , jewel-bright variety of Latin America behind things that more often lump its nations together . Drugs , debt , dictators , destitution , maracas , machismo , priests , peasants , tangos … The Venezuelan poet Juan Liscano sits by the sea and tells us that Europeans   tend to classify us as exotic birds-parrots , or toucans …   But the truest expression of Latin America , he says , is its culture .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Court Circular By JOHN LICHFIELD BUCKINGHAM PALACE 30 September : The Princess Royal this morning visited Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Deputy Lieutenant for Hampshire ( Captain MPR Boyle ) . Her Royal Highness , President of the Royal Yachting Association , attended the 1.3 Litre World Powerboat Championships and opened the Southampton Vessel Traffic Services Centre . The Princess Royal travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight . Major Nicholas Barne was in attendance . 1 October : The Prince of Wales attended a service in Dornoch Cathedral to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dornoch Cathedral Parish . Subsequently , His Royal Highness visited the Lawson Memorial Hospital , Golspie . Commander Richard Aylard RN was in attendance . 1 October : The Princess Royal , Patron , Royal Lymington Yacht Club , this morning attended the X One-Design Class Division Invitation Race at Lymington , Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Vice-Commodore ( Mr John Guillaume ) . Her Royal Highness travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  The Guardian: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letters . By PETER STANFORD is right in maintaining ( Weekend Guardian , November 4 ) that Graham Greene is not alone in calling himself a   Catholic agnostic   . An earlier thinker who declined to see any mutual contradiction between similar terms was Leslie Weatherhead , psychologist and cleric , who published his Creed of a Christian Agnostic . Weatherhead was honest enough to realise that there are many aspects of religion about which one has to remain uncertain , that is , agnostic . These   difficult   areas will vary from one individual to another . As a self-confessed Christian agnostic he himself , however , was sure of a number of the major tenets of Christianity . His   creed   claimed ( in part ) :   I believe that God exists … I believe there is mind behind the universe … Such a mind must be love rather than hate … I believe in the divinity of Christ … I believe that sin is a grisly fact in the world … I believe that God 's forgiveness is one of the most blessed and therapeutic experiences and that it is offered to all who seek it … I believe that our relationship with God is the most important thing in the world … I believe that each individual is precious to God .   Within this creed appear supportive rational arguments but also agnostic admissions , such as   I can understand little about that mind   and   I do not know what   divine   means   . I imagine that many honest people would sympathise with Weatherhead and happily echo his final paragraph :   All this gives me as much as I need , and seems to me the essential credo of Christianity . About the rest I am content to be agnostic .

<  Independent: Health pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Health : Lively young woman seeks normal life : Elaine Heath , who is severely paralysed , tells Cherrill Hicks of the daily constraints she faces By CHERRILL HICKS ELAINE HEATH likes pink eye glitter and a vodka and orange before lunch . She reads Lenin , Lawrence and supports CND . Elaine is also severely disabled by cerebral palsy : she can use neither her arms nor legs , and she can only communicate by making noises , or by operating an electric typewriter with her nose . In spite of her disability , Elaine has in the past led a remarkably active and normal life . She has been through a marriage , a divorce , and a serious love affair ; learnt Russian , written regularly for a local paper and taught a young child disabled by a stroke to read again . But Elaine no longer has a close relationship to give her the support she needs . Without it , she has become a virtual prisoner in her own home ; she is ruled by the clock and the hours worked by her local authority helpers . Unable to go away for weekends or holidays , she never goes out at night to dinner parties , discos or evening classes . Her life has become intolerable , she says , ever since she became a social services   project   . In the mornings Elaine can not get up before 9am - which is when her care assistant starts work .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  belief and thought>BOOK REVIEW Thatcher 's early days on the seat of power :   Margaret , Daughter of Beatrice   - Leo Abse : Jonathan Cape , 12.95 pounds By AUBERON WAUGH IN A LONG apologia for having had the temerity to undertake a psycho-biography of Mrs Thatcher , Leo Abse denies that his book is a personal attack on her , but agrees that it may have some admonitory function in warning people not to acquiesce too readily in the disposition of someone who would appear , on his argument , to be gravely unbalanced . His justification for the necessary invasion of privacy is the familiar - and thoroughly respectable - plea that politics should and must be personalised . Politics has very little to do with issues ; it is all to do with the personal vanities and ambitions of politicians . Or so he says at the beginning of his book . By the end , with an extended sermon on the emptiness of individualist ethics , he is pleading for a return to the benevolence in public affairs which Thatcher can not supply by nature of having been denied her mother 's breast , given the wrong sort of potty training , etc . There are two objections to this sort of psycho-biography . The first lies in the extent to which all evidence adduced depends on guesswork . Abse has not put Thatcher on the analyst 's couch , and does not pretend to have done so . Everything is taken from previously published material .

