<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Independent: Science section. Auto domain:  natural sciences>After the deluge , life goes on for trout By MICHAEL SMITH AFTER such a long hot summer , with rivers running dry , it 's difficult to imagine what a good flood looks like . But - very soon - sluggish trickles over riverbed pebbles will be transformed by heavy rain in a matter of hours into dangerous raging torrents . What happens to a river 's aquatic life when the deluge strikes ? The answer , it seems , is that next to nothing is known about it . Paul Giller and Helena Twomey , of the Department of Zoology at University College , Cork , have been awarded a grant by the British Ecological Society to try to find out what damage this water-based equivalent of a hurricane can do , and how quickly river life returns to normal . Some of their early findings are very surprising . What they have done is to look in detail at the impact of two severe floods which hit the little Araglin river in Co Cork in August 1986 and how it has recovered since . The Araglin - a stony , soft-water , trout river - was chosen because of a welter of data on its fish and invertebrate populations collected well before the flooding . What they found was that the river bottom invertebrates which spend their larval stages among the gravel and pebbles on the riverbed plummeted in numbers immediately after the inundation . They dropped from between 4,000 and 9,000 per square metre of riverbed - a natural variation according to time of year - to about 500 per square metre . Two years later their numbers were still no higher than 2,000 per square metre .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Independent: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Cricket First Test : Azharuddin 's daring defiance AS anti-climaxes go , they do not come better than this . As history , nothing that happened here yesterday was ever likely to match the events of Friday , but as entertainers , the Indian batsmen generally hold their own . They are still 277 behind England and only 43 ahead of Graham Gooch , but for exhilarating strokeplay , the honours are all with the Indian captain , Mohammed Azharuddin . The unchallenged winner of the wooden spoon after putting England in on Thursday , he bounced back yesterday with an innings of magnificent irresponsibility . He reached three figures , for the fourth time against England , in only 130 minutes and 87 balls . It was the fastest hundred in a Test match in England since the heady days of 1981 , and as a gambler 's last throw , it was in the same class as Botham 's 149 . In three innings against England this summer , he has yet to be out . Not that Gooch was finished . Four years ago , when Ian Botham returned from suspension and took a wicket with his first ball , Gooch trotted up from slip and asked him ,   Who writes your scripts ?   Whoever it was , Gooch seems to have hired them . Yesterday , not content with turning England into a winning team and making the highest Test score of the modern era , he threw himself the ball - and removed the dangerous Sanjay Manjrekar with his third delivery .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

