<  Independent: Food pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Food : The test of a true boar : British gourmets could soon go the whole hog , writes Henrietta Green By HENRIETTA GREEN WILD BOAR once roamed the fields and forests of Britain . They were the sport of rich noblemen who hunted and ate them with terrific enthusiasm - until there were none . Now there are plans afoot to reintroduce them to Britain on a grand scale for the   gourmet   market . Not as wild boar running free and doing untold damage to the countryside , as in Italy , France and Germany ; but as farmed wild boar which should ease your mind , even if it causes the farmers untold headaches . Thus it was , last Friday , that the inaugural meeting of the British Wild Boar Association took place . It was held , appropriately , on the first day of Michaelmas when , in medieval times , pigs were traditionally turned out into the woods to fatten up on acorns . It got off to a hairy start with several heated discussions about what a wild boar is . Does   wild   mean how it is kept ? Can it be farmed intensively or should it only be reared extensively ? Does the name cover only pure-bred wild boars or can it include a cross , bred with a domestic pig ? If crosses are to be allowed , what percentage of cross is acceptable ? And just because it looks like a wild boar with the striped marking or   agouti   ( long snout , straight tail and small pointy ears ) , can it be accepted as such without a genetic test ? Pretty technical stuff this , with enough contentious issues to make every boar farmer 's hair curl . As Robert Spencer Bernard , barrister and part-time farmer of wild boar for several years on his Buckinghamshire estate , said :   A tiger is a tiger whether you see it in the London Zoo or in the Indian forests , but with a wild boar the argument is n't so simple .   We had been herded together to discuss this and other issues by Dr Derek Booth , animal geneticist and scientist .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

<  Daily Telegraph: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Letter to the Editor : Original dish SIR - In 1813 Sir Thomas Bernard published a pamphlet , An Account of a Supply of Fish for the Manufacturing Poor , which proposed to ameliorate the poverty among working people in London by increasing the supply of fish . A Fish Association was duly set up under the chairmanship of the Duke of Kent . In one report the association described the success of the fish industry in Penzance , mentioning that the shortage of corn lead to its replacement by increased potato planting . So there you have it : fish and chips were a West Country invention . BILL WEST Exeter , Devon Leading Article : Horses for courses FOR THE thoughtful punter , with cash in hand , at least two openings present themselves this morning - the Grand National and next week 's General Election . Weighing his chances , the punter will naturally examine respective odds . There is nothing at Aintree much shorter than 6 to 1 , whereas the two main parties in the General Election are offered on narrower terms . There are also minor differences of which to take account . A gambler , taking a sudden fancy to Mr Kinnock and planting ?25,000 on Labour - not a course we recommend - will be felt instantly in this modest market , and shift the odds overnight . He would make less stir in the larger Aintree pool .

<   The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Times change but the victims do n't Television . By Hugh Hebert WITH the continent the way it is , the end of Made in Latin America ( BBC-2 ) was inevitable . It was the shooting dead in August of Colombia 's poll-topping Liberal presidential candidate , Senator Luis Carlos Galan . He arrived at the crowded town square near Bogota and was born shoulder high to climb up onto the back of a truck to make his campaign speech . The shots sounded like no more than a bad cough . True , there was the other mass gathering-a packed hall in Medellin , Drug City , listening as poets challenged the deadly fluence of the Mafia through writing that has the characteristics of war work : defiant , angry , and sad . But what you carry away in the back of your eye is the image of two very still figures , in foetal folds , on the platform of that truck as everyone else dived for cover . Mike Dibb 's series has been sometimes confusing , lacking in structure . But it has made us aware of the crusted , jewel-bright variety of Latin America behind things that more often lump its nations together . Drugs , debt , dictators , destitution , maracas , machismo , priests , peasants , tangos … The Venezuelan poet Juan Liscano sits by the sea and tells us that Europeans   tend to classify us as exotic birds-parrots , or toucans …   But the truest expression of Latin America , he says , is its culture .

<  Independent: Property section. Auto domain:  commerce>Property : Cottage charms By SUE FIELDMAN THE reputed birthplace of Bob Fitzsimmons , world heavyweight boxing champion in 1897 , is one of the 100 or more properties to be auctioned by the Bristol and West between 18-20 October . The house ( right ) at 61 Wendron Street in Helston , Cornwall , has a guide price of ?55,000-?70,000 and a blue plaque in honour of Fitzsimmons . It will be auctioned at the Alverton Manor Hotel , Truro , on 19 October , at 3pm . Ferryman 's Cottage ( left ) , at Noss Mayo in South Devon , is to be auctioned on its own by Strutt & Parker ( 0392 215631 ) on 26 October . The two-bedroom cottage needs refurbishment but it is in a superb location , in the middle of woodland owned by the National Trust and overlooking the River Yealm . The guide price is ?150,000 . Property : Forward Planning : Making Proposals : Influencing the decision-makers : Allison Flight fills in the background to a planning application By ALLISON FLIGHT THE planning system is designed around the idea that people should have a say in what happens to their immediate surroundings . But how do you find out about whether a planning application has been made in the first place ? Whether you are proposing or opposing an application , what is the best way to influence the decision that is eventually made ? Finding out about an application : Under section 28 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 the planning authority - usually the local council - is supposed to advertise certain planning applications in the local newspaper . The proposals covered are development in a conservation area , works to a listed building or which affect the setting of a conservation area or a listed building , and developments in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty . The planning authority also has to advertise locally any proposals involving large buildings ( those more than 20 metres high ) , or any   unneighbourly uses   - such as a casino , scrap yard , cemetery or slaughterhouse - and put up a notice on the site itself .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Court Circular By JOHN LICHFIELD BUCKINGHAM PALACE 30 September : The Princess Royal this morning visited Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Deputy Lieutenant for Hampshire ( Captain MPR Boyle ) . Her Royal Highness , President of the Royal Yachting Association , attended the 1.3 Litre World Powerboat Championships and opened the Southampton Vessel Traffic Services Centre . The Princess Royal travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight . Major Nicholas Barne was in attendance . 1 October : The Prince of Wales attended a service in Dornoch Cathedral to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dornoch Cathedral Parish . Subsequently , His Royal Highness visited the Lawson Memorial Hospital , Golspie . Commander Richard Aylard RN was in attendance . 1 October : The Princess Royal , Patron , Royal Lymington Yacht Club , this morning attended the X One-Design Class Division Invitation Race at Lymington , Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Vice-Commodore ( Mr John Guillaume ) . Her Royal Highness travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Travel pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Palin the globe-trotter By FRANK BARRETT ON THE fae of things , Michael Palin seems an unlikely double for the archetypal stiff upperlipped phlegmatic Englsihman Phileas Fogg , hero of Jules Verne 's Around the World in Eighty Days . Palin , ex-Python star - most recently appearing as Ken in A Fish Called Wanda - was invited by BBC 2 to tread in Fogg 's footsteps by recreating the fictional journey . ( Alan Whicker , it seems , was first choice : Palin makes an interesting substitute given the wicked Python parody of Whicker Island : a place full of Alan Whickers endlessly interviewing each other . ) It 's hard to imagine Mr Fogg , for example , ever having been a train-spotter : if there was any train-spotting to be done , Mr Fogg would have despatched his loyal French manservant Passepartout to do it on his behalf . Yet young Palin , who grew up in Sheffield , was an enthusiastic train spotter , neatly underlining each newly spotted locomotive in his Ian Allan book .   I did n't cross them out - that would have been too much like defacing the book ,   he says . And while he has travelled a lot since the success of Monty Python , as a child his family holidays were spent in the unadventurous climes of Southwold and East Anglia ( recalled in his TV play East of Ipswich ) . He travelled far , however , in his imagination .   I 'd been everywhere in books : I read a lot about exotic places . And I went to church every Sunday where we used to have missionaries who would come and tell tales about how they built churches in jungle clearings with lions gnawing at their legs .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

