<  Daily Telegraph: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letter to the Editor : Gay sex is subversive SIR Ian McKellen ( Letters , March 29 ) must not be allowed to get away with his blanket assertion that equality for homosexuals has been established throughout Europe . One has to distinguish between the individual and the practice . Europeans recognise that some individuals are by nature homosexual ; as individuals , they must be respected and their rights must be protected . But let us not be led astray : the practice of homosexuality is anathema to all Christian people and not just in Europe . It can only subvert the young . Richard T. Jones Southport , Letter to the Editor : Pope 's guidance in election SIR - Can I , as a Catholic , following the guidance of Pope John Paul II , vote for the Labour Party manifesto ? That depends on how seriously I take the special letter on the life issues of abortion and euthanasia he wrote last May to his bishops . He urged them to act decisively for   the inviolable right to life , which belongs to every person from conception until life 's natural end   . Earlier in 1991 he had urged   the promotion of the culture of life in the face of the culture of death   . He castigated the anti-life practices of abortion and euthanasia as   crimes of totalitarianism against the most defenceless of human beings   .

<  Independent: Travel pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Palin the globe-trotter By FRANK BARRETT ON THE fae of things , Michael Palin seems an unlikely double for the archetypal stiff upperlipped phlegmatic Englsihman Phileas Fogg , hero of Jules Verne 's Around the World in Eighty Days . Palin , ex-Python star - most recently appearing as Ken in A Fish Called Wanda - was invited by BBC 2 to tread in Fogg 's footsteps by recreating the fictional journey . ( Alan Whicker , it seems , was first choice : Palin makes an interesting substitute given the wicked Python parody of Whicker Island : a place full of Alan Whickers endlessly interviewing each other . ) It 's hard to imagine Mr Fogg , for example , ever having been a train-spotter : if there was any train-spotting to be done , Mr Fogg would have despatched his loyal French manservant Passepartout to do it on his behalf . Yet young Palin , who grew up in Sheffield , was an enthusiastic train spotter , neatly underlining each newly spotted locomotive in his Ian Allan book .   I did n't cross them out - that would have been too much like defacing the book ,   he says . And while he has travelled a lot since the success of Monty Python , as a child his family holidays were spent in the unadventurous climes of Southwold and East Anglia ( recalled in his TV play East of Ipswich ) . He travelled far , however , in his imagination .   I 'd been everywhere in books : I read a lot about exotic places . And I went to church every Sunday where we used to have missionaries who would come and tell tales about how they built churches in jungle clearings with lions gnawing at their legs .

<  Independent: Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>The revolution the countryside needs : Christian Wolmar says Britain is lagging behind in setting up   telecottages   By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR THE information technology revolution has left large swaths of rural Britain untouched . The only computers in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games . Ashley Dobbs , an engaging young entrepreneur , is setting out to change that by creating a nationwide network of   telecottages   . This clever name , with its neat evocation of new and old , describes a concept which was developed in Sweden and is spreading to rural areas across the world . In Mr Dobbs 's words , a telecottage is   a room in a village filled with computer communications that can be used by local people to learn and work   . The equipment consists of , perhaps , four word processors , a modem , a laser printer able to produce artwork-quality output , a fax and a photocopier . Software programmes for desk-top publishing , word processing , accounting and business planning are also essential . Mr Dobbs , who is chairman of Telecottages UK , warns possible users not to get bogged down with the technology :   The equipment is a tool to overcome what needs to be done . People must n't think that because there 's a computer , they 've got to think of a use for it .   He reckons there are no shortages of possible uses - farmers can use it to do their accounts , women with child-care responsibilities can work in their own time on the word processors , publicity material for local craftsmen can be produced and so on .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  world affairs>Leading Article : Still a need for the big idea By MARY FAGAN NEIL Kinnock and the party he leads are looking better than they have done at any time since he took office in 1983 . There will be ritual rebellion in Brighton from the Transport and General Workers Union over Labour 's belated renunciation of unilateral nuclear disarmament . But Ron Todd , the union 's general secretary , is expected to concede defeat gracefully . Even if other antinuclear fundamentalists threaten to fight , fight and fight again , Mr Kinnock need have no fear . The more firmly he tells them and the country that , as Prime Minister , he and not they will rule , the more likely it is that he will eventually reach Downing Street . On other issues , crucial victories have been won before the Labour Party 's annual conference opens . Relatively few influential activists would now quarrel with the recognition that markets are an effective way of generating wealth and indicating consumer preferences . Few want the wholesale repeal of industrial relations legislation . Even the popular belief that the unions exercise too much power over Labour policies is gradually being accepted by a number of union leaders . Paradoxically , the more moderate of them are insisting on the maintenance of their block votes because the party is still not fully democratic .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

