<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  leisure>Ripping yarns and moral minefields : Allan and Janet Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children By CELIA DODD THESE days , no one questions the importance of good books for the under-fives . But books that appeal to adults too are just as important ; we are , after all , the ones who have to do the reading . There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate . Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood , a real meeting of adult and child minds . With the Ahlbergs ' books , it very often is . The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman , Burglar Bill and The Baby 's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour . They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring . Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past - the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods - and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes . Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures . The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life , of being too cosy and sweet , but their latest picture book , Bye Bye Baby , published today , breaks the mould .

<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Talk of the Trade : Antiques record By ANN ROBERTS THE first antiques   freesheet   is claiming to have topped the circulation of every other antiques magazine just four months ( and one issue ) after its launch . The World of Antiques is produced quarterly from a cottage in Somerset by Duncan and Jacki Phillips and distributed to everyone who visits antiques fairs around the country - estimated at 50,000 people every three months . The top-selling magazines have a circulation of around 14,000 . Talk of the Trade : Technical hitch By ANN ROBERTS THERE are grumblings among BBC Television technical staff , whose objections to cramped studio conditions caused a two-week delay in the launch of the new Breakfast News . When it was eventually launched last week , critics - including our own Mark Lawson - noticed a number of technical blips . The next day a high-tech caption machine broke down .   Talk of the Trade : Disputed Record By ANN ROBERTS RUPERT MURDOCH 's News International is furious that the Audit Bureau of Circulations has allowed Robert Maxwell 's Daily Mirror to include the sales of its Scottish sister paper the Daily Record in calculating its circulation figures . Together , the Mirror and Record sales amount to 3,900,000 - only 200,000 below The Sun . The Mirror sells 3,200,000 on it own . NI insists that the Mirror and the Record are separate newspapers with different editors and very little common content , even selling at different cover prices .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  social science>PCBs explained From Dame MARY DONALDSON , GBE PCBs - polychlorinated biphenyls - are very inert organic substances , which were prized because they were flexible ( being liquids ) but had very high insulating properties for electricity . They were also used in hydraulic systems because they did not react with the materials used in the pipes and pistons . They do not occur naturally , but were produced commercially for 50 years , beginning in 1929 . They are extremely hard to dispose of . Incineration , which claims a 99.999 per cent destruction rate , is the only known way of eliminating them . But PCBs are a disappearing problem . In the late Seventies many countries , including the UK ( in 1978 ) , banned their manufacture . Remaining stocks ( in electrical equipment , mostly ) are being burned , but traces will remain for many years . PCBs are now ubiquitous at very low levels in the environment , in both town and country .

<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Independent: Law section. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Why we must tame the state Leviathan : Greater use of judicial review would help people fight bad decisions by public bodies , Anthony Lester says By ANTHONY LESTER WHEN I began practice at the Bar 25 years ago , phrases such as   judicial review of administrative action   ,   public law   , or   fundamental human rights and freedoms   sounded strange to English judges and lawyers . They described apparently alien , un-English ideas , taken from Continental or United States systems . Successive generations of politicians , civil servants , judges and philosophers reared on a meagre intellectual diet of pragmatic utilitarianism and positivism had firmly rejected these ideas as a basis for ensuring constitutional government and citizens ' rights . For them , written constitutions , Bills of Rights , and a special system of administrative law regulating relations between government and the governed were exotic , inedible fruits of the American and French Revolutions . According to the conventional British wisdom of the middle of the century , our flexible unwritten constitution , our democratic Parliament , the sense of fair play of our permanent civil service , and our vigorous and vigilant free Press were safer and more effective guarantees of personal freedom than a Continental or American-style   government of judges   . A quarter of a century later , the conventional wisdom of British mandarins looks complacent , self-serving , ill-informed , and outmoded - especially in the light of the many serious breaches by the United Kingdom of the European Convention on Human Rights . The powers of British central government are greater than those enjoyed by any other democratic country of comparable size . Between elections , a government with a sufficient parliamentary majority obedient to its will is absolute and omnipotent . Because it is not subject to the paramount law of a written constitution , it can make or unmake any law as it chooses . It can legislate arbitrarily to deprive groups of citizens of their basic rights or freedoms , to enlarge its own powers at the expense of local government , to weaken the ability of the media to inform the public , or to sap judicial independence .

<  Independent: Gardening pages. Auto domain:  leisure>In the Garden Update : Prize fruit and veg From MARC CHAMPION in Washington PRIZES will be awarded for the best carnations and bonsai at the Royal Horticultural Society 's show in Greycoat Street , London SW1 , to be held this Tuesday ( 11am-7pm , admission ?2.50 ) and Wednesday ( 10am-5pm , admission ?1.50 ) . There will also be displays of autumn fruit and vegetables . In the Garden Update : Growing classes Weekend Garden Page 43 In the Garden Update : Weekend work From MARC CHAMPION in Washington SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now . The summer 's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows , clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover . Keep away from jasmine , already thick in flower bud , and clematis , however untidy . Buddleias , although messy , should not be cut back until spring . Dead , ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed , cutting where the stem joins the main branch . Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters .

