<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach : Roland Franklin , who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG , talks to Frank Kane By FRANK KANE IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin , the latest unbundler to appear in the UK , has made a fatal error in the preparation of his ?697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG . He has not properly investigated the target 's dining facilities . The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments , through which the bid is being mounted says ,   rule number one in this business is : the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters , the more inefficient the business   . If he had taken his own rule seriously , he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office . There are other things he has , on his own admission , not fully investigated , like the value of the DRG properties , or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up . When the bid was launched last week , Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts . He regards the charges as unfounded . On property , he is blunt .   I do not regard property profits as earnings . We have made a bid of nearly ?700m for a company with a book value of ?200m - we 've acknowledged there is some extra worth there , but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property .

<  The Guardian: Sport section. Auto domain:  leisure>Skating . Joanne Conway , who is hoping to become the first woman for more than 20 years to win five successive titles , made a strong start at the Skate Electic British championships in Basingstoke . The 18-year-old from North Shields beat off eight opponents and a tendon injury to take the lead after the opening compulsory figures . Soccer : Ball denies being   vulture   over Mills . By Russell Thomas ONE former England international stepped into another 's shoes yesterday when Alan Ball succeeded Mick Mills as managerial upheavals continued in earnest . But Ball denied that he had trampled on Mills 's feet since arriving at Stoke City less than three weeks ago . The 1966 World Cup winner , starting his caretakership of the Potteries club , said :   I have not been a vulture on Mick 's back - and he knows that .   Mills lost his first managerial job after seeing his side win only two Second Division games in the last 30 while spending more than ?1 million . The results , especially the dooming 6-0 defeat at Swindon last Saturday , tell their own story , even if Ball 's arrival at the Victoria Ground from Colchester as first-team coach pointed to his promotion . But there was no treachery , said Ball .

<  Independent: Editorials. Auto domain:  belief and thought>BOOK REVIEW Thatcher 's early days on the seat of power :   Margaret , Daughter of Beatrice   - Leo Abse : Jonathan Cape , 12.95 pounds By AUBERON WAUGH IN A LONG apologia for having had the temerity to undertake a psycho-biography of Mrs Thatcher , Leo Abse denies that his book is a personal attack on her , but agrees that it may have some admonitory function in warning people not to acquiesce too readily in the disposition of someone who would appear , on his argument , to be gravely unbalanced . His justification for the necessary invasion of privacy is the familiar - and thoroughly respectable - plea that politics should and must be personalised . Politics has very little to do with issues ; it is all to do with the personal vanities and ambitions of politicians . Or so he says at the beginning of his book . By the end , with an extended sermon on the emptiness of individualist ethics , he is pleading for a return to the benevolence in public affairs which Thatcher can not supply by nature of having been denied her mother 's breast , given the wrong sort of potty training , etc . There are two objections to this sort of psycho-biography . The first lies in the extent to which all evidence adduced depends on guesswork . Abse has not put Thatcher on the analyst 's couch , and does not pretend to have done so . Everything is taken from previously published material .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Much the same old beast , slightly tamed : The new Porsche 911 looks very familiar , says Gavin Green By GAVIN GREEN ALTHOUGH you would never know it , a new range of Porsches has gone on sale in Britain to replace the rear-engined 911 , the longest-lived sports car in the world . Visual clues to the new model include body colour bumpers , small side skirts and a rear spoiler that rises automatically at speeds of more than 50mph ; at low speed or when stationary it retracts , leaving the handsome sweep of the car 's tail clean . But in every other way , the new 911 looks identical to its predecessor . That Porsche can show so little imagination when launching a new model is a corollary both of the popularity of the old 911 ( the only model unaffected by Porsche 's recent slump in sales worldwide ) , and of the conservatism at the top of the Stuttgart company . Predictably , the styling rework has done the look of the 911 no favours : rehashing a beautiful original rarely does . The front bumpers look heavy and bulbous , the side skirts look like add-ons . The whole effect is as if an aftermarket body-kit specialist has had a go at embellishing a 911 , with the predictable result . Still , the new 911 is a better car than the old one , as you 'd expect . It 's more aerodynamic , the interior has been improved ( although not nearly as much as it should have been ) , the new engine has more power and yet is no thirstier , and the new suspension means safer , more predictable , handling . The first Mk2 911 to go on sale in Britain was the Carrera 4 - the four-wheel drive version .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts >DAY OUT Fields of human conflict : David Keys on permanent reminders of the Second World War … By DAVID KEYS The 50th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War has largely been an armchair affair , commemorated in newspapers and magazines , on the radio and television . However , outside your sitting room thousands of wartime military installations still survive as historically important reminders of Britain 's epic struggle . Fighter and Bomber Command airfields , anti tank defences , gun emplacements , prisoner of war camps - and some 6,000 pillboxes still form part of the landscape in many areas of the country . In the heart of London 's Whitehall visitors can explore the warren of cramped underground rooms and passageways which served as the nerve centre of Britain 's war effort . Known as the Cabinet War Rooms , the complex has only been open to the public since 1983 . Inside , one can still see the Map Room , where Churchill used to study the progress of the war , the Cabinet Room where many of the Second World War 's most important decisions were made , and Churchill 's personal accommodation from which he made several of his wartime broadcasts . In the space of 12 months the War Office built 25,000 pillboxes - almost a quarter of which still survive - and erected hundreds of miles of concrete anti-tank defences . On windswept lonely Chesil Beach - that great ten mile long pile of pebbles which stretches westwards along the Dorset coast from Portland - one can still explore the pillboxes and anti-tank defences which were built in 1940 to resist the threat of invasion . And later in the war , in 1943 , it was this imposing natural wall of shingle which was used by the famous Dambusters as a practice target before their attack on the Mohne and Eder dams in Germany . Fifty miles inland , the remains of the wartime government 's fall-back line of defence still survives , mostly along the line of the Kennett-Avon canal .

<  Independent: Motoring pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Motoring : A lead-free lover 's guide to used cars : Drivers with a tight budget and an environmental conscience can buy second-hand without losing principles , says James Ruppert By JAMES RUPPERT FROM this month , all new cars submitted for British type approval , the test which allows them to be legally sold in the UK , must be able to run on lead-free petrol . As a result of this rule , and many carefully orchestrated publicity campaigns , the motor industry 's image has now changed from polluter to pal of the earth . If you can afford an environmentally friendly G-registered runabout , then the flora , fauna and children of the British Isles will have a lot to thank you for . But if you have a tight budget and a conscience , running older cars on lead-free fuel becomes a much more complicated issue . Without the presence of a lead compound , an engine 's valve seats go unprotected . This leads to premature wear and plumes of blue smoke spewing from the exhaust . The only effective remedy is to install hardened valve seats or a replacement cylinder head , both expensive options . Less costly , but not entirely satisfactory , is the practice of making every fourth tankful leaded petrol , which protects the valve seats but rather defeats the object . Alternatively there are several chemical additives on the market which aim to provide a substitute for lead , although the case for these products has yet to be proved . However , many cars built within the last few years have hardened valve seats , or alloy cylinder heads that need little ( simply a retune ) or no modification to use unleaded petrol .

<  The Guardian: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook . By Edited by Alex Brummer CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System . But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community , the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim , who have been meeting in Australia , might not have bothered . The first , albeit tenative , steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe : movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips . Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks : the EC based around the West German economy ; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area , and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre . But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State , Mr James Baker , are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum . It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community : a suggestion rudely rebuffed . The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US , Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande . Now it is making a third bid for influence . It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe .

<  Independent: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tigrayans advance on a helpless Addis Ababa From RICHARD DOWDEN in Addis Ababa THE ETHIOPIAN army is failing to halt northern rebels advancing rapidly southwards to the capital and its vital lifeline road . Some observers are predicting the imminent collapse of the military regime which has ruled Ethiopia for 15 years . The rebels , the Tigrayan People 's Liberation Front ( TPLF ) , are threatening to cut off Dese , a key garrison town protecting part of the road linking Addis Ababa with the port of Assab . They have advanced down the Asmara road in the past four weeks and are now reported to be operating south of Dese . They have surrounded a garrison at Bati , to the east , and on 19 September they attacked Mile on the Assab road , closing it for 36 hours . Helicopter gunships ply constant missions from their base at Kombolcha : yesterday I watched MiG-21 fighter-bombers , loaded with bombs and rockets , take off from Dire Dawa and head west . The estimated 40,000 troops in Dese are being joined by the remnants of the defeated Third Army , which is struggling down the road or surrendering to the rebels . One estimate puts government losses in the past four weeks at 20,000 killed , captured or deserted . The government in Addis Ababa will say nothing about the situation , and the war is not reported by the state-run media . However , recent visitors to Dese describe the areas as chaotic , with whole units leaderless and unwilling to fight .

