<  Daily Telegraph: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Jury awards Donovan ?200,000 By Wendy Holden and Colin Randall JASON DONOVAN , the singer and actor , won ?200,000 libel damages against the magazine The Face yesterday after a High Court judge had urged jurors not to   go over the top   with their award . Mr Donovan , 23 , Australian star of the West End hit musical Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat , brought the action after the magazine published a doctored photograph and article which , he claimed , implied that he was homosexual and a liar and hypocrite for denying it . With costs unofficially estimated at up to ?200,000 , the award seemed likely to force the closure of the magazine , which has built a reputation for trendiness and a circulation of 73,000 , selling mainly to people in their 20s . But Mr Donovan 's manager , Mr Richard East , said last night that both sides had agreed to hold discussions   to achieve a satisfactory outcome for everybody and to enable the magazine to continue to publish   . Mr Donovan 's motive had been to clear his name , not to close the magazine . The latest in a series of costly libel defeats for newspapers , periodicals and individuals led to renewed calls for legal reform to remove the power of juries to decide the size of libel damages . In his summing-up , Mr Justice Drake had told jurors to remember that the   hurt   caused to Mr Donovan lasted less than a year and would end with a verdict in his favour . Contrasting Mr Donovan 's distress with that of victims of industrial injury , the judge said :   You should have in mind it is not a case where you are awarding damages for someone who has suffered some physical injuries which will be with him for the rest of his days .   Bear in mind there are people who suffer lifelong injury which can never be put right . What does a miner who has irreparable damage to his lungs and lives a miserable life say when he reads of huge awards of damages in libel actions ?   Just bear that in mind as a thought .

<  The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Lebanon leader builds cabinet . By Reuter in Beirut LEBANON 'S new President , Mr Rene Muawad , yesterday worked to weld old militia foes into a cabinet to govern his divided country while fellow Christians , demonstrating against him , shut half of Beirut . Supporters of General Michel Aoun , staged noisy street protests in the Christian enclave . About 1,000 marched on the French embassy to denounce support for the Arab peace plan which brought Mr Muawad to power on Sunday .   France has deceived us ,   one poster said . Another charged that Lebanon 's Christians had been let down by President Franois Mitterrand . Gen Aoun rejected the Arab peace pact for failing to ensure a clear , rapid timetable for the withdrawal of Syria 's 33,000 troops from Lebanon . Mr Muawad , a pro-Syrian Maronite Christian , met deputies in the village of Ehden in the Syrian-controlled north to consult them about forming a cabinet , due to be announced this week . Analysts said Mr Muawad faced the task of uniting militia leaders who have been fighting each other for 14 years . Mr Muawad has said nothing about the composition of his cabinet , but is expected to include Mr Selim el-Hoss , Prime Minister in a rival administration to Gen Aoun .

<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  social science>PCBs explained From Dame MARY DONALDSON , GBE PCBs - polychlorinated biphenyls - are very inert organic substances , which were prized because they were flexible ( being liquids ) but had very high insulating properties for electricity . They were also used in hydraulic systems because they did not react with the materials used in the pipes and pistons . They do not occur naturally , but were produced commercially for 50 years , beginning in 1929 . They are extremely hard to dispose of . Incineration , which claims a 99.999 per cent destruction rate , is the only known way of eliminating them . But PCBs are a disappearing problem . In the late Seventies many countries , including the UK ( in 1978 ) , banned their manufacture . Remaining stocks ( in electrical equipment , mostly ) are being burned , but traces will remain for many years . PCBs are now ubiquitous at very low levels in the environment , in both town and country .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

<  Independent: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>TELEVISION Broken English : Mark Lawson on Home Run , and BBC2 's Red Dynasty By MARK LAWSON THERE were several scary moments in Home Run ( BBC 1 ) , a thriller by Andy Armitage , but few as terrifying as the early revelation that the central character was called Billy English . It was a christening that seemed to hunger for significance . Certain newspapers and television programmes have long enjoyed surname humour - the mid-wife called Miss Stork , the taxi-driver Mr Hanger - but few such features have unearthed a Mr England , Miss English or Mrs Albion whose character is , in some obscure way , an embodiment of the national one . This is one significant difference between fiction and existence . In real life , men called England end up as football manager of Wales . In a story , such a guy is the Isles . Billy English stood for an English clan wider than his immediate family . Born to salty , honest East End folk - this was hinted at , the script sensibly avoiding the risk of fleshing them out - he had risen in the City to a financial position which permitted him to park his BMW beside the flash docklands flat , close to his rough but pure roots , in which he kept his nice French bird . Billy 's only problem was that someone or something was pursuing him . The phantom was initially nameless but the viewer knew that , if he had shouted Class or Guilt after it , it would probably have answered .

<  Independent: Frontpages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Pope rejects Runcie 's vision of church leadership From ANDREW BROWN , Religious Affairs Correspondent , in Rome THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury , Dr Robert Runcie , exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter 's Square , Rome . But Dr Runcie 's ideas of a limited primacy - recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church , who would exercise   a primacy for the sake of unity and mission   - have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope . They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie , at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the   Pharisees   of British society . Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass , he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit ; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley . In his sermon , Dr Runcie said :   We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord .   Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism . The Pope , too , has spoken warmly of unity . On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio , which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597 . But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems . Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy , involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church .

<  Independent: Health pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Health : Lively young woman seeks normal life : Elaine Heath , who is severely paralysed , tells Cherrill Hicks of the daily constraints she faces By CHERRILL HICKS ELAINE HEATH likes pink eye glitter and a vodka and orange before lunch . She reads Lenin , Lawrence and supports CND . Elaine is also severely disabled by cerebral palsy : she can use neither her arms nor legs , and she can only communicate by making noises , or by operating an electric typewriter with her nose . In spite of her disability , Elaine has in the past led a remarkably active and normal life . She has been through a marriage , a divorce , and a serious love affair ; learnt Russian , written regularly for a local paper and taught a young child disabled by a stroke to read again . But Elaine no longer has a close relationship to give her the support she needs . Without it , she has become a virtual prisoner in her own home ; she is ruled by the clock and the hours worked by her local authority helpers . Unable to go away for weekends or holidays , she never goes out at night to dinner parties , discos or evening classes . Her life has become intolerable , she says , ever since she became a social services   project   . In the mornings Elaine can not get up before 9am - which is when her care assistant starts work .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

