<  The Guardian: Leisure pages. Auto domain:  leisure>When the pie was opened Letter from Lakeland . By David Bean NOVEMBER again . The shrinking of daylight , the burgeoning triumph of black Chaos and night . And hereabouts , of course , time once more for the consumption of the traditional Boggerthwaite November Owl Pie . No one any longer recalls where this unusual dish had its origins ; indeed some people have been unkind enough to suggest that it was but recently invented by Mr Rory McGurk at the Dehydrated Rambler , on finding himself with too much ageing shepherd 's pie left on his hands . It proved , even at the insolent price of ?5.95 a slice , to be even more popular than McGurk 's other stock-in-trade , the Jumbo-Cumbo Boggerburger , and he has prepared a batch every November since . So few of us were surprised when the other evening three strangers entered the Saddle Bar and ordered portions of the stuff . That they were visiting shootists seemed pretty evident from the way they left the bar door open against the howling night , the loudness of their speech , and the muddy state of their boots . Hikers are generally timid enough to leave their footwear and rucksacks in the porch ; today 's sporting fraternity always brings its mud with it as well as milling packs of steaming black labradors .

<  Daily Telegraph: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letter to the Editor : Gay sex is subversive SIR Ian McKellen ( Letters , March 29 ) must not be allowed to get away with his blanket assertion that equality for homosexuals has been established throughout Europe . One has to distinguish between the individual and the practice . Europeans recognise that some individuals are by nature homosexual ; as individuals , they must be respected and their rights must be protected . But let us not be led astray : the practice of homosexuality is anathema to all Christian people and not just in Europe . It can only subvert the young . Richard T. Jones Southport , Letter to the Editor : Pope 's guidance in election SIR - Can I , as a Catholic , following the guidance of Pope John Paul II , vote for the Labour Party manifesto ? That depends on how seriously I take the special letter on the life issues of abortion and euthanasia he wrote last May to his bishops . He urged them to act decisively for   the inviolable right to life , which belongs to every person from conception until life 's natural end   . Earlier in 1991 he had urged   the promotion of the culture of life in the face of the culture of death   . He castigated the anti-life practices of abortion and euthanasia as   crimes of totalitarianism against the most defenceless of human beings   .

<  Daily Telegraph: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Tories focus on credibility of Kinnock By GEORGE JONES , POLITICAL EDITOR THE Conservatives sought last night to force the election debate back on to Mr Kinnock 's fitness to govern and the economy , with a warning that Labour would plunge Britain from recession into a full-blown slump . As Labour confidently outlined the contents of its first Queen 's Speech , including a commitment to introduce by summer a Bill to establish a Scottish Parliament , the three main parties prepared for a big push over the last weekend of the campaign . Five national opinion polls in tomorrow 's newspapers are keenly awaited after a survey in London showed Labour 's lead slipping a couple of points . The two main parties are still neck and neck , pointing to a hung Parliament . With Labour and the Liberal Democrats still arguing over the terms of a possible deal based on proportional representation , the Tories intensified their attack on Mr Kinnock 's suitability for high office and the impact on sterling and interest rates of a Labour victory . Last night 's Conservative election broadcast questioned whether the electorate could   trust   Mr Kinnock after he had changed his mind on nationalisation , Europe , Scottish devolution and unilateral nuclear disarmament . This theme was taken up by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , in a speech in Chepstow , attacking Labour 's rally in Sheffield on Wednesday .   For the first time , the real Neil Kinnock was on show . Grinning and swaggering his way through yelling fellow socialists , he mounted the stage ,   said Mr Baker .   Mr Kinnock the statesman ? No way .

<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

<  Independent: Gardening pages. Auto domain:  leisure>In the Garden Update : Prize fruit and veg From MARC CHAMPION in Washington PRIZES will be awarded for the best carnations and bonsai at the Royal Horticultural Society 's show in Greycoat Street , London SW1 , to be held this Tuesday ( 11am-7pm , admission ?2.50 ) and Wednesday ( 10am-5pm , admission ?1.50 ) . There will also be displays of autumn fruit and vegetables . In the Garden Update : Growing classes Weekend Garden Page 43 In the Garden Update : Weekend work From MARC CHAMPION in Washington SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now . The summer 's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows , clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover . Keep away from jasmine , already thick in flower bud , and clematis , however untidy . Buddleias , although messy , should not be cut back until spring . Dead , ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed , cutting where the stem joins the main branch . Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters .

<  Independent: Travel pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Departures : Palin the globe-trotter By FRANK BARRETT ON THE fae of things , Michael Palin seems an unlikely double for the archetypal stiff upperlipped phlegmatic Englsihman Phileas Fogg , hero of Jules Verne 's Around the World in Eighty Days . Palin , ex-Python star - most recently appearing as Ken in A Fish Called Wanda - was invited by BBC 2 to tread in Fogg 's footsteps by recreating the fictional journey . ( Alan Whicker , it seems , was first choice : Palin makes an interesting substitute given the wicked Python parody of Whicker Island : a place full of Alan Whickers endlessly interviewing each other . ) It 's hard to imagine Mr Fogg , for example , ever having been a train-spotter : if there was any train-spotting to be done , Mr Fogg would have despatched his loyal French manservant Passepartout to do it on his behalf . Yet young Palin , who grew up in Sheffield , was an enthusiastic train spotter , neatly underlining each newly spotted locomotive in his Ian Allan book .   I did n't cross them out - that would have been too much like defacing the book ,   he says . And while he has travelled a lot since the success of Monty Python , as a child his family holidays were spent in the unadventurous climes of Southwold and East Anglia ( recalled in his TV play East of Ipswich ) . He travelled far , however , in his imagination .   I 'd been everywhere in books : I read a lot about exotic places . And I went to church every Sunday where we used to have missionaries who would come and tell tales about how they built churches in jungle clearings with lions gnawing at their legs .

<  The Guardian: Religious affairs stories. Auto domain:  belief and thought>Letters . By PETER STANFORD is right in maintaining ( Weekend Guardian , November 4 ) that Graham Greene is not alone in calling himself a   Catholic agnostic   . An earlier thinker who declined to see any mutual contradiction between similar terms was Leslie Weatherhead , psychologist and cleric , who published his Creed of a Christian Agnostic . Weatherhead was honest enough to realise that there are many aspects of religion about which one has to remain uncertain , that is , agnostic . These   difficult   areas will vary from one individual to another . As a self-confessed Christian agnostic he himself , however , was sure of a number of the major tenets of Christianity . His   creed   claimed ( in part ) :   I believe that God exists … I believe there is mind behind the universe … Such a mind must be love rather than hate … I believe in the divinity of Christ … I believe that sin is a grisly fact in the world … I believe that God 's forgiveness is one of the most blessed and therapeutic experiences and that it is offered to all who seek it … I believe that our relationship with God is the most important thing in the world … I believe that each individual is precious to God .   Within this creed appear supportive rational arguments but also agnostic admissions , such as   I can understand little about that mind   and   I do not know what   divine   means   . I imagine that many honest people would sympathise with Weatherhead and happily echo his final paragraph :   All this gives me as much as I need , and seems to me the essential credo of Christianity . About the rest I am content to be agnostic .

<  Independent: Property section. Auto domain:  commerce>Property : Cottage charms By SUE FIELDMAN THE reputed birthplace of Bob Fitzsimmons , world heavyweight boxing champion in 1897 , is one of the 100 or more properties to be auctioned by the Bristol and West between 18-20 October . The house ( right ) at 61 Wendron Street in Helston , Cornwall , has a guide price of ?55,000-?70,000 and a blue plaque in honour of Fitzsimmons . It will be auctioned at the Alverton Manor Hotel , Truro , on 19 October , at 3pm . Ferryman 's Cottage ( left ) , at Noss Mayo in South Devon , is to be auctioned on its own by Strutt & Parker ( 0392 215631 ) on 26 October . The two-bedroom cottage needs refurbishment but it is in a superb location , in the middle of woodland owned by the National Trust and overlooking the River Yealm . The guide price is ?150,000 . Property : Forward Planning : Making Proposals : Influencing the decision-makers : Allison Flight fills in the background to a planning application By ALLISON FLIGHT THE planning system is designed around the idea that people should have a say in what happens to their immediate surroundings . But how do you find out about whether a planning application has been made in the first place ? Whether you are proposing or opposing an application , what is the best way to influence the decision that is eventually made ? Finding out about an application : Under section 28 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 the planning authority - usually the local council - is supposed to advertise certain planning applications in the local newspaper . The proposals covered are development in a conservation area , works to a listed building or which affect the setting of a conservation area or a listed building , and developments in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty . The planning authority also has to advertise locally any proposals involving large buildings ( those more than 20 metres high ) , or any   unneighbourly uses   - such as a casino , scrap yard , cemetery or slaughterhouse - and put up a notice on the site itself .

<  The Guardian: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster . THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly , haphazard way and was then left unchecked . The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen . In most years , rail deaths are few : in some there are none at all . Clapham , indeed , accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years : compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads . Yet yesterday 's report on the Clapham crash , confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry , makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable . This was a system hopelessly under strain . Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck ; under strain from commercial pressures which , as the inquiry puts it ,   compromised   safety ; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope , were weary from gruesome working hours ( the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks ) , lacked adequate training , or simply could n't be bothered . The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail , which knowingly permitted these things to continue . Though individuals are nailed , the greatest villain of all is the system .

<  Independent: Gazette section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Court Circular By JOHN LICHFIELD BUCKINGHAM PALACE 30 September : The Princess Royal this morning visited Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Deputy Lieutenant for Hampshire ( Captain MPR Boyle ) . Her Royal Highness , President of the Royal Yachting Association , attended the 1.3 Litre World Powerboat Championships and opened the Southampton Vessel Traffic Services Centre . The Princess Royal travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight . Major Nicholas Barne was in attendance . 1 October : The Prince of Wales attended a service in Dornoch Cathedral to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dornoch Cathedral Parish . Subsequently , His Royal Highness visited the Lawson Memorial Hospital , Golspie . Commander Richard Aylard RN was in attendance . 1 October : The Princess Royal , Patron , Royal Lymington Yacht Club , this morning attended the X One-Design Class Division Invitation Race at Lymington , Hampshire and was received on arrival by the Vice-Commodore ( Mr John Guillaume ) . Her Royal Highness travelled in an aircraft of The Queen 's Flight .

