<  Independent: Listings section. Auto domain:  arts>PUB ROCK Pint-sized rock   n   rollers : Jim White steps back in time to sample the fare at his local By JIM WHITE According to those on the inside track , Raggahouse is the latest fad in clubland . This hybrid mix of reggae and hip hop follows acid jazz , Belgian New Beat and acid swing - the wholly forgettable contribution of Jive Bunny - as the sound to set disco feet tapping . But no matter how often the archives are ransacked for old genres to bastardise , you do n't have to be at the forefront of style-making to foresee that very few clubs will be swaying this time next year to Pub Acid , Hip Malt ` n   Hops , or Sweaty Backroom House . The grunge and grime of pub rock has been credited with many things , including the invention of punk rock , but being remotely fashionable is n't one of them . At the Bull & Gate , next door to the Town & Country Club in London 's Kentish Town , the management has been promoting pub rock in a back room with adjoining outer bar for almost as long as the form has existed . Last Thursday night the pub presented a triple bill described in Time Out magazine , the Baedeker Guide for London pub rock fans , as   melodic pop rock   . At the door the man taking the money was dirtying patrons ' hands with one of those rubber stamps no-one thought existed outside student discos . When pressed he was unable to give an accurate answer why this was necessary , nor why the stamp read   Do Not Bend   . For your ?3 entrance fee , you were invited into a dingey outer bar , packed to capacity with strange anarcho-punk types who only appear at night . At the bar a leather-clad schoolboy was buying a pint of lager , served in a plastic beaker .

<  Independent: Antiques pages. Auto domain:  arts>Auctions : Dazzling riches of the Orient By ROGER BELL IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby 's and Christie 's . They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian . The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors . Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares ; they are mostly priced in the ?500 to ?1,000 range and rate high on charm . The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds ; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from ?2,000 or so to ?15,000 . Both houses combine elegant early metalwares ( twelfth thirteenth century ) , bronze vessels with silver inlay - which are expensive - with nineteenth- century imitations , more flashy but in the mid-hundreds . There are plenty of Indian miniatures , colourful and charming evocations of princely courts , priced in hundreds or low thousands . Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive ; a striking Khmer figure will cost ?20,000 or more . There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments , with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace ; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third fourth century . Glasgow : Clocks and scientific instruments , Wednesday 11am .

<  Independent: Media section. Auto domain:  arts>Talk of the Trade : Autumn price fall By PETER DUNN PETER FRASER , owner of the Classic Bookshop and opponent of the Net Book Agreement , has complained to Michael Joseph and the Booksellers ' Association about The Sunday Times 's special autumn offer of Edith Holden 's The Nature Notes of an Edwardian Lady , published tomorrow . He is aggrieved because , although it is being sold at the NBA price of ?15.95 , purchasers are also receiving special prints with the book . Michael Joseph says there has been no breach :   The Sunday Times 's promotion is theirs , not ours .   Mr Fraser , with bookshops in Sherborne , Bristol and Bath , says he will probably sell the book for ?13 . Talk of the Trade : Victims ' voice By PETER DUNN PEOPLE savaged by the tabloids are banding together to fight back . On last week 's Hard News on Channel 4 , Linda Joyce , the Princess Royal 's former maid , announced the formation of an organisation called Response , through which victims of the yellow press can compare experiences and seek redress . When letters were stolen from the Princess Royal in April , Miss Joyce was questioned by police and some newspapers jumped to the wrong conclusion that she was responsible . Joint founder of Response is Josephine Hunt , whose long-running battle with The Sun , which called her handicapped son   the worst brat in Britain' , was also featured . Talk of the Trade : Chamber chat By PETER DUNN A SATELLITE channel transmitting the proceedings of the British Parliament and overseas legislatures has been suggested by the Astra satellite company , Marketing Week reports .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Style section. Auto domain:  leisure>Fashion : Fable , cable and fishermen 's yarns : Vinny Lee on warm and woolly traditional chunky sweaters By VINNY LEE SAILING around the coast of England searching for shoals of fish , Gerorge Trowark , a Cornish fisherman born in 1877 , must have visited dozens of ports and harbours . At each stop he noted down the shapes and stitch work of other traditional working men 's jumpers . From the Morecambe Cockler 's Pullover to the Romney Marsh Smock and Norfolk Fenman 's Weskit to Thames Docker 's Jacket , each intricate knit and pearl motif was documented . Trowark himself would most likely have been found under the thick cable-knit cover of his Cornish Knit Frock . Trowark joined his father Jelbert and brother Jago on the fishing boats of Newlyn and in time learnt to knit - a craft popular among fishermen of the day as a way of passing time on long voyages . Although a skilled fisherman , George Trowark became renowned as a knitter and over many years and many voyages he accumulated detailed notes of designs and patterns . These notes have provided knitwear designer Martin Storey with much of the information and inspiration for his new George Trowark range , a new collection of chunky man-sized jumpers . The 12 sweater designs in the new Trowark collection are hand-knitted or quality machine-knitted and hand finished in cotton , linen or wool yarns . Colours are muted - black , blue or natural - the dyed colours mature and look softer with wear . Indigo-dyed blue jumpers are stonewashed to give a worn look , but the stonewashing also creates an interesting highlight effect on the raised knitted details .

<  Independent: Architecture section. Auto domain:  arts>On the horns of the Bull Ring dilemma : The people of Birmingham should be allowed to vote on the future development of their city , Jonathan Glancey believes By JONATHAN GLANCEY BIRMINGHAM 'S infamous and exhausted retail hub , the Bull Ring , just 25 years old , has been placed on architecture 's death row . There will be no stay of execution and few mourners for this spoiled concrete child of the Sixties . Old before its time , the Bull Ring has been accused of the systematic rape of the second city . It also stands accused of murdering the much-loved area around the old Bull Ring market that had grown up in piecemeal fashion over the 800 years since Birmingham was granted a market charter in 1150 . This had survived the worst the Luftwaffe could do , but was no match for   comprehensive redevelopment   . The Bull Ring , completed by Laing Developments in 1964 , rammed together four levels of shopping , a market hall , a multi-storey car park , an office block , a bus station and a banqueting suite all in one vast complex . Snaking between its constituent parts was the controversial and overwhelming city ring road designed by the successive and all-powerful city engineers , Herbert Manzoni and Neville Borg . The most militant fan of Sixties architecture would be hard pressed to support a last-minute appeal for the Bull Ring , although crocodile tears will be shed over the probable demolition of the Rotunda , a monumental steel and glass phallus , that , in the absence of a sky-piercing cathedral , acts as the city 's one instantly recognisable focal point . But what is going to replace the Bull Ring ? Given the stupendous costs involved , should the city be looking to powerful private developers working with big firms of commercial architects to take the lead and replace like with like , albeit in a more acceptable architectural garb ? Or should development be given over to a broad church of interest groups and realised by a catholic mix of architects working in a number of complementary styles ? The debate in Birmingham has reached something like fever pitch , now that the city council is faced with two rival development schemes . On the one side is the developer , London & Edinburgh Trust ( LET ) and its architects , Chapman Taylor Partners .

<  Daily Telegraph: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  natural sciences>River polluted Nearly 300 litres of diesel oil were spilled into a tributary of the River Tamar in Plymouth yesterday after vandals released the fuel from a tank in a timber yard . Morning sickness good for mothers By Roger Highfield Science Editor BOUTS of nausea and vomiting that accompany the first months of pregnancy may be good news for the mother , according to two new theories on the cause of morning sickness . One argues that morning sickness helps the mother avoid exposing the developing child to toxins and the other that it is a side-effect of a hormonal power struggle between foetus and mother . The sickness peaks when the foetus is going though a rapid stage of development of limbs and organs , making it highly sensitive to toxins . Ms Margie Profet , a research associate at the University of California , believes the accompanying aversion to certain foods , tastes and smells may help the mother to avoid more toxic foods . Her findings are about to be published by Oxford University Press in a book called The Adapted Mind . Natural toxins are contained in most foods : for instance , vegetables use them to fight off pests and bacteria produce them in meat .   Humans have defences against these toxins ,   she said ; embryo may be sensitive to small doses a healthy woman could tolerate . To help a pregnant woman avoid certain foods , Ms Profet notes that , during the early stages , women 's sense of smell becomes more acute , food lingers longer in their stomachs and the brain centre that triggers vomiting also becomes more sensitive . The toxic protection mechanism dovetails with the fact that the pregnancy is three times more likely to miscarry if the mother does not feel sick , an observation supported by the second theory .

<  Independent: Sport pages. Auto domain:  leisure>Football : Robson 's cure eases Polish problem By PATRICK BARCLAY , Football Correspondent FOR Captain Marvel read Captain Miracle : Bryan Robson , whom England had sadly written out of their plans for the World Cup qualifying match against Poland a week tomorrow , may be fit to play in Chorzow after all . The England and Manchester United captain was named yesterday in his club squad for the Littlewoods Cup second round , second leg against Portsmouth at Old Trafford tonight , a hairline fracture of the leg having healed with remarkable speed . Bobby Robson , the England manager , who had spent the weekend pondering the merits of possible deputies for his club colleague Neil Webb , a long-term casualty , expressed   surprise and delight   at the news that England midfield disruption may be kept to a minimum . Bryan Robson 's injury , a legacy of previous combat , was diagnosed when he had to be substituted 20 minutes from the end of the first leg at Portsmouth only 13 days ago . United , leading 3-0 at the time , conceded two goals at the final whistle . It was immediately assumed that Robson , who had missed England 's 0-0 draw in Sweden last month because of bruised ribs , would again be absent when his country strove to acquire the further point they need in Poland to ensure qualification for the World Cup finals next summer . But Bobby Robson said yesterday :   Manchester United have obviously not made the decision to recall him lightly . Now I 'm looking forward to reviewing the situation after the Portsmouth match . If he comes through unscathed , he can be added to the squad . There is no problem about having another player .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>The Bar Conference : Donaldson sets the tone for battle over rights of audience By PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES , Legal Correspondent BARRISTERS could retain much of their monopoly over advocacy in the higher courts under a subtle agenda for discussion spelled out by Lord Donaldson , the Master of the Rolls , as he opened the Bar 's annual conference in London at the weekend . Signalling the beginning of a lower-key campaign against the plans of the Lord Chancellor , Lord Mackay of Clashfern , to give increased rights of audience in the High and Crown court to solicitors , Lord Donaldson called on the Bar to put aside the   trauma , the acrimony and the recriminations   which followed Lord Mackay 's Green Papers and to abandon the hustings . Lord Donaldson said objectives due to be included in this autumn 's Bill were   total freedom of choice for the client , unless the interests of justice otherwise require   .   When those concerned turn their attention to this problem , they may find they have to make a distinction between litigation in which there is a direct public interest in the result and that in which the public interest is limited to ensuring that an adequate system of justice is available .   In the first category we have criminal cases , judicial review and cases which involve matrimonial status and the welfare of children or those under a disability . In many of them , particularly criminal cases , the interests of the client may be quite different from those of the public .   In these cases the interests of justice may demand special requirements such as , for example , that the preparation and presentation of the case be in separate and independent hands   . In the second category , general civil cases , parties should be able to choose their own lawyers because the interests of justice would be inherently less likely to fetter the client 's right of choice . Lord Donaldson implied , however , that solicitors who exercised their new rights of audience in these cases ought to be expected to concentrate on advocacy . While emphasising that he had not reached any firm conclusions , Lord Donaldson 's voice will be a powerful one in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres as rules governing the exercise of the new advocacy rights are hammered out away from the parliamentary battlefield .

<  Independent: Education section. Auto domain:  social science>Education : Pupil pioneers enter the land of uncertainty : Five weeks into the new national curriculum , both teachers and pupils find they need further enlightenment . Elisabeth Dunn reports By ELISABETH DUNN DRAINED by the exercise of inferring what was holding together two pieces of stick inside a cardboard box , a first-year science pupil at Gillingham comprehensive school in north Dorset advanced the opinion that the national curriculum was   just another posh name for different subjects   . She had done science before ; this was just more science . No big deal . After a month of putting government education ideology into practice , life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was . Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences , her headmaster , Manuel Lenarduzzi , was preparing for last night 's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets . Much of Mr Lenarduzzi 's material for the meeting , designed to clarify the national curriculum , relied on inference because , as yet , only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science , and nobody knows how attainment testing will work . Rumour and uncertainty abound , suggesting , this week , that pupils ' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers ' assessment . But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week ? For all the absence of Bakerthink in the classroom , it would be misleading to suggest that nobody had taken any notice of the Education Reform Act . At Gillingham , in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive , the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including ( 5 ) Human Influences on the Earth , ( 15 ) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation , and ( 17 ) The Nature of Science .

