<  The Guardian: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Why Charlotte Du Cann hates the use of kids as accessories Hip families Fear and loathing .. YOU can not look at anything these days without coming face to face with a picture of a blissful couple holding a baby . The baby is the accessory of the moment , seen everywhere that is stylish : on the catwalk , on magazine covers , in major advertising campaigns ( Next , above ) , in tough cop thrillers ( Saracen ) . Where once a Chanel handbag or bull terrier would have done , the fashionable woman now holds a smiling child . This is said to be   getting real   , being   very Nineties   . A baby says you care ( read New Age ) , you are into the earth ( misread green ) . I have heard of some stupid fashion details in my time , but this is the pits . A baby is not some final luxury item that consumers can afford ( although this is obviously how the Government views it ) . It does not guarantee you some privileged place on earth .

<  Daily Telegraph: Business section. Auto domain:  commerce>City : Treasury climbs down over funds By Roland Gribben THERE was confusion yesterday about the affect on government spending and borrowing after the Treasury climbdown over the way subsidies from the European Commission are treated . Unofficial EC estimates suggest that provision has had to be made for about ?2 billion in the ?28 billion borrowing requirement for 1992–93 as a result of the policy shift . The Treasury says the decision to change the basis of treatment , announced by Peter Lilley , Trade and Industry Secretary , on February 13 , came too late to affect the current year 's figures but have been included in the 1993–94 estimates . Pressure from Bruce Millan , EC regional commissioner , has resulted in the Treasury reluctantly accepting that the funds provided by Brussels are additional to government spending rather than part of it and should be steered to specific projects rather than forming part of the spending pool . Treasury insistence that EC contributions are   taxpayers ' money   and should be counted as part of the public spending programme caused friction with the EC and Mr Millan froze money due to coal and steel areas . City : Nervous sterling mauled by the mark By Anne Segall THE pound had another tense day , struggling to hold its own on the exchanges as investors waited nervously for weekend opinion polls before deciding their next move . Dealers reported some overnight selling from Japan and the Middle East but the currency recovered its poise during the day before plunging in late trading as a result of heavy switching into German marks . It closed 1? pfennigs lower at Dm2.8308 but managed to gain a cent to $1.7420 as the dollar succumbed even faster to mark pressure .

<  Daily Telegraph: News and features. Auto domain:  social science>Judges order appeal into explosives case By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent JOHN BERRY , 54 , who was released on parole last week after serving three and a half years of a six-year sentence for making explosive devices , is to have a new appeal hearing in his long-running legal battle to clear his name . Three Court of Appeal judges headed by Lord Lane , the Lord Chief Justice , ruled yesterday that the court could entertain a request by Mr Baker , Home Secretary , for the case to be reviewed , despite its 1990 ruling that Berry , a Norfolk businessman and ex-Royal Marine , could not have his case reopened . Lord Lane said another division of the court had then felt powerless to intervene and hear new grounds of appeal because the Lords restored Berry 's conviction after an earlier successful appeal . The difficulties in the case were caused by the Court of Appeal 's earlier failure to rule on two of Berry 's three grounds of appeal , said Lord Lane , but that did not preclude the Home Secretary from re-opening the case . Berry , from Bramerton , Norfolk , was originally convicted at Chelmsford Crown Court in 1983 of making electronic timers for detonating bombs . He had been tried jointly with another businessman , Jeffrey Smith , who was eventually cleared at a retrial . Berry 's conviction was quashed on a legal technicality by the Court of Appeal in early 1984 , but later that year the House of Lords restored the conviction in allowing an appeal by the Crown . He fled to Spain while on bail awaiting the House of Lords ruling but was returned to England in 1989 and resumed his sentence .   Temple of the law is turning into a casino   THE JASON DONOVAN LIBEL CASE : Damages award reinforces the need for reform , say lawyers By Terence Shaw , Legal Correspondent THE ?200,000 damages awarded to Jason Donovan will be seen by many lawyers as another illustration of the urgent need for libel law reform . The award was made despite one of the strongest warnings ever by a judge to a libel jury about excessive pay-outs .

<  Independent: Home news pages. Auto domain:  world news>Law Report : Employee not entitled to payment from redundancy fund : Secretary of State for Employment v Levy - Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Mr Justice Wood , Mr R J Lewis and Mr J A Scouller ) , 4 October 1989 By YING HUI TAN , Barrister   Pay   within article 119 of the EEC Treaty did not include a statutory redundancy payment or a statutory payment under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Accordingly , article 119 did not apply to the Employment Secretary 's liability to make section 106 payments , and an employee who had become entitled to a state pension and was then dismissed for redundancy was not entitled to a payment from the Employment Secretary under section 106 . The EAT , by a majority , allowed the Secretary of State 's appeal against an industrial tribunal 's decision to award the applicant the sum of ?4,513.50 to be paid by the Secretary of State out of the redundancy fund under section 106 of the Employment Protection ( Consolidation ) Act 1978 . Article 119 of the EEC Treaty provides :   Each member state shall … maintain the application of the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work . For the purpose of this article ,   pay   means the ordinary basic or minimum wage or salary and any other consideration , whether in cash or in kind , which the worker receives , directly or indirectly , in respect of his employment from his employer .   The applicant was employed by a company from 1959 to 1987 until she was dismissed by reason of redundancy when she was a few months over 60 . She was disentitled to a redundancy payment by section 82(1) of the 1978 Act , which denied redundancy payment to women aged 60 or more . She applied to her employer for a redundancy payment but was refused because of lack of funds . She then applied to the Secretary of State for payment under section 106 .

<  The Guardian: Arts section. Auto domain:  arts>Forget Kylie - here come the crisp bags Yorkshire students are making music for the ears of world famous composers with everything from sneezes to zips . Martin Wainwright reports . HUNCHED over something very similar to the control deck on Starship Enterprise , Sam Coombes slid up the tape-monitor levers and pressed a series of buttons marked   Remix   . The resulting squawk - actually a recording of Sam and five friends rubbing their fingers on a damp window pane - will soon be played to a dauntingly expert audience through 30 loudspeakers in Huddersfield town hall . Amazingly famous music supremos Oliver Messiaen , Pierre Boulez and John Cage are coming to the Yorkshire town for the annual Contemporary Music Festival , Britain 's highlight in the world of electro-acoustic chords and allied disharmony . The six teenage composer-musicians from Fartown comprehensive , off the Bradford Road , have been chosen to join them , in a project designed to widen interest in a specialised and frequently off-putting field .   Serious contemporary music is not a popular art form and electro-acoustic music is particularly unpopular , even among contemporary musicians ,   admits Robert Worby , one of two composers helping the Fartown team with their own three-minute piece . The three celebrated composers visiting Huddersfield are all in their seventies . They and their colleagues are particularly eager to generate interest among the young . The humorous , self-mocking twist to much contemporary music is helping , according to Sam & Co .

<  Independent: Focus section. Auto domain:  world affairs>Free Speech 3 : No cause for panic over risks on site By JOHN RIMINGTON Director General since 1984 of the government-funded Health & Safety Executive responsible for industrial safety and inspectorates . Nobody with the job of managing the nation 's principal safety agency could be complacent . As industrial processes become more complex , the energy applied to them greater , substances and compounds more subtle and control processes more remote , the potential for serious accidents increases . So does the vulnerability of people at work , or moving through the transport networks , or living near large industrial plants . But are we becoming too worried ? Does the recent rash of serious accidents affecting people jammed together in small spaces mean that Britain has become the glass jaw , as well as , allegedly , the dirty man of Europe ? Let us put the record into perspective . Every year in Britain about 5,000 people die on the roads . About the same number are killed at home . More than 600 people are murdered . Rather fewer are killed at work , a low figure by international comparisons , though the number of those whose lives are abridged by industrially contracted ill-health is not known or included . Yet the applied energy , constant movement of people , heavy loads and handling of what are sometimes the most dangerous substances imaginable make many industrial environments intrinsically dangerous .

<  Independent: Living section. Auto domain:  arts>Architecture : Invisible buildings that reflect nothing : The subtopian , A-road design of many of our cities is destroying their character , Jonathan Glancey believes . Most critics ignore the dreariness of our streets , but it is time for the public to demand better By JONATHAN GLANCEY THIS is the architecture that dare not speak its name . It professes no particular architectural creed ; it belongs to no recognisable school of design . Tags such as Modern , Post-Modern , High-Tech or even Neo-Classical are wholly redundant when you stare at this subtopian , A-road architecture . The specialist architectural press ignores this amorphous school of design , while even the Prince of Wales has nothing to say on the subject , reserving his spleen for imaginative buildings that he and so many of his future subjects profess to hate . The current architectural debate has served to polarise popular opinion on modern architecture . Richard Rogers and the bravura City of London headquarters he designed for Lloyds are presented as unmitigated villains . The burgeoning Neo-Classical architects , such as John Simpson and Quinlan Terry , are , by nature of the style they choose to work in , a good thing . Modern British architects worth their salt , or future knighthoods , can be counted on a few colour spreads of the Prince of Wales 's bestselling book A Vision of Britain . But a national debate on architecture at this level is as banal as it is unhelpful .

<   The Guardian: Foreign news pages. Auto domain:  world affairs>Times change but the victims do n't Television . By Hugh Hebert WITH the continent the way it is , the end of Made in Latin America ( BBC-2 ) was inevitable . It was the shooting dead in August of Colombia 's poll-topping Liberal presidential candidate , Senator Luis Carlos Galan . He arrived at the crowded town square near Bogota and was born shoulder high to climb up onto the back of a truck to make his campaign speech . The shots sounded like no more than a bad cough . True , there was the other mass gathering-a packed hall in Medellin , Drug City , listening as poets challenged the deadly fluence of the Mafia through writing that has the characteristics of war work : defiant , angry , and sad . But what you carry away in the back of your eye is the image of two very still figures , in foetal folds , on the platform of that truck as everyone else dived for cover . Mike Dibb 's series has been sometimes confusing , lacking in structure . But it has made us aware of the crusted , jewel-bright variety of Latin America behind things that more often lump its nations together . Drugs , debt , dictators , destitution , maracas , machismo , priests , peasants , tangos … The Venezuelan poet Juan Liscano sits by the sea and tells us that Europeans   tend to classify us as exotic birds-parrots , or toucans …   But the truest expression of Latin America , he says , is its culture .

<  The Guardian: Applied Science pages. Auto domain:  applied science>Update . By SALES of unleaded fuel continue to climb . This week 's figures suggest that one in three motorists are buying unleaded , despite the confusion which still exists about which cars can run on which fuel . In an attempt to clarify the issue , Esso has brought out a new edition of their guide to motorists about which cars can run on unleaded fuel . It is less ambiguous than the previous version but still suggests that if your car will run on standard unleaded petrol , it will run even better on Super Plus unleaded . It ai n't necessarily so , but you wo n't hurt the engine by trying - only your wallet . By the way , I deplore the practice employed by some filling stations of having several premium unleaded pumps on the forecourt but tucking the standard and cheaper fuel , away in a corner . P for safety . TRIPS to Ireland recently have reinforced my view that the P ( probationer ) plate carried by those cars driven by people who have passed their driving test within the last year , are a good thing and should be adopted here . Any parent with youngsters learning to drive would be reassured by such a plate and experienced drivers seeing the P-plate can treat the car with respect .

<  Independent: Law pages. Auto domain:  social science>Law : Review of administration in Court of Appeal Civil Division By COLIN BROWN , Political Correpondent AS A measure for reducing delays in the disposal of appeals in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , Lord Donaldson of Lymington , the Master of the Rolls , said the categories of cases in which unsuccessful litigants were required to obtain leave to appeal should be extended . Lord Donaldson gave the seventh annual review of the organisation and administration of the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal , on 12 October 1989 . He said the purpose of the annual review was to inform the legal profession , the users of the court and the wider public of what problems had been encountered in endeavours to achieve better , cheaper and swifter appellate justice , what steps were being taken to overcome those problems and what success was attending those efforts . The critical equation The resources of the court , both human and material , were necessarily limited . Delays would increase or decrease , according to whether the court was presented with more or less work than it could handle . Over the seven-year period covered by the reviews , that critical equation had produced a state of equilibrium . Lead times - the period which elapsed between an appeal being launched and its disposal - were largely unchanged . It was against that background that the judges and staff of the court had throughout the year been examining what measures were feasible which tip the balance in the direction of reducing delays , either by an improved system for screening appeals or by an improved system for handling them or both . Screening appeals The justification for the present system whereby some categories of appeal could only be brought by leave of the trial judge or of the Court of Appeal was threefold : 1 . It was no kindness to allow a litigant who was unsuccessful in the trial court to incur costs protesting at that result , if the decision was demonstrably correct or , as often in matrimonial disputes , if there was no   right   answer and the trial judge must inevitably be the final arbiter .

